Interviewer: So, one thing that I ask clinical experts about object hoarding, which I wonder since you're somebody who knows a lot about both disorders, so when we talk about insight there's a lot of different constructs of insight that we can talk about.
Randy Frost had a paper where he broke it down into four, and the four are defensiveness, anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive your illness or that something is wrong, overvalued ideation; so, persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items for object hoarders or animals, and indifference.
And one of the things that I wonder about is is it a delusional disorder, like--
Interviewee: It's very interesting you bring that up because I was just this morning at a meeting at the association of prosecuting attorneys working with a judge who I've worked with on a number of hoarding cases, and she just had a case of a client who was charged with animal hoarding, I forget all the details but I believe it was quite a few dogs--more than 30--but he was found not competent based on a delusion.
It was argued, and we've never had this before in an animal hoarding case, but because he was in such denial.
He otherwise was aware of the proceedings, aware of the charges against him, normally might have been considered competent to participate in his own defense, but because he could not acknowledge that the animals in his care were suffering or were dying, the court considered him to be delusional, that he's otherwise functioning at a very high level but his total failure to recognize the impact of his behavior on the animals was in the court's view indicative of delusional functioning, and basically he was found not competent to stand trial and actually has been admitted to a mental health facility at least temporarily.
So, we had a lot of discussion for probably about half an hour with a bunch of prosecutors because this was a first in terms of my dealing with hoarding situations where not only was it recognized as delusional thinking, but so delusional that an otherwise high-functioning person interfered with his ability to assist in his own defense.Interviewer: And what's your opinion as a clinician about that idea?
Do you think that that's fair?
Interviewee: I think it shows great insight, it shows a much higher level of understanding I think of the thought processes of a hoarder than I normally see from clinicians who don't really recognize what's going on.
I'd like to get the reference on those four sources because that's something I'd like to make reference to, I can certainly relate to all of them, except indifference.
I don't think that in many of the animal cases that they don't care, and of course what we frequently hear in the media is, "this is someone who cares too much about animals," or "they love animals too much."
Indifference has never been sited as a factor in animal hoarding for the conditions of it developing, but the others are.
You mentioned a lack of the actual perception, again in animal hoarding situations the environmental impact is much greater than in object hoarding because you do have the animals that pee and poop and die and that's obviously one of the overwhelming characteristics of the animal hoarding cases, is the environment and often very dangerous ammonia levels and things like that.
So the question often is can't they smell the urine or feces or can't they see dead animals on the kitchen table and that's one of the things that's been very interesting to us, because in some level you could argue that they don't, or they don't appear to, or they don't acknowledge the existence of that sensory information.
Interviewer: And I guess with insight there's kind of two problems with insight.
One is insight into the actual physical situation and how bad it is, and the other is insight into the way that it could be interfering with one's life and kind of separating those out.
Interviewee: That's absolutely right, and usually one of the things we see in probably I think in about 25% of the animal hoarding cases is we do have an impact on others in their care, either dependent adults or children.
It's not unusual to have hoarding situations where you'll have let's say an older hoarder in his or her 50s or 70s who's caring for a parent in their 80s or 90s, and sometimes we do see social services getting involved in even charges or in some cases child abuse or neglect or endangerment chargers when there are children in their care.
So, not only are we not cognizant of the impact of the hoarding on themselves, but what often brings them into conflict with the legal system is the impact of that on others that are in their care or sharing their space with them.Interviewer: And I guess in cases of animal hoarding, I remember you talking about in our last conversation that sometimes people will actually have social networks or people who are kind of supporting them in their behavior, and how does that work with this kind of delusional almost aspect of...does it become a shared delusion?
Interviewee: Almost a shared delusion, like we've had--in the case of our rescue hoarders, which are our most common large-scale hoarding situations, so people who at least present themselves or describe themselves as rescuers and sometimes actually formerly have a non-profit status and claim to be a rescue organization, and when they do come in conflict with the law or are charged with animal cruelty, many of the enablers or people who have assisted them will show up at their hearings and their trials and will also have the same level of denial.
I've had situations where we will have evidence photographs of emaciated or debilitated animals, particularly in the cats we get very severe upper respiratory infections that sometimes even cause rupturing of eyeballs and things like that, and we will have evidence photos or veterinary reports, and their supporters, enablers, defenders will basically accuse us of doctoring those photos and they basically say it's fake news!
LAUGHS So, to that extent it becomes a shared delusion.
Interviewer: And why do you think that happens?
Do you have any knowledge of how that gets built?
Interviewee: Well usually these are fellow hoarders.
It's interesting that they show up for each other's trials or hearings or whatever, but they don't necessarily present them with aid.
They don't say, "Let me take some of these animals off of their hands, let me help you" or "let me get you some resources," they are just reinforcing the notion that they're keeping all these animals under whatever condition is an act of rescue or love or whatever.
So, they are enablers but they're not helpers, they're not...they're making the situation, either perpetuating it or even exasturbating it.
I haven't seen too many cases, although it's there in the literature and I've talked to other people, sometimes the hoarders are actually competing with each other.
They're like, you know, literally competing for animals that they find and occasionally even stealing from each other.
Interviewer: So it almost appears to be a community in some cases?
Interviewee: Well, and that's something that's also I think unique to animal hoarders.
Part of their delusion is they feel--I guess I would consider it delusional thinking...but they are the only ones that can provide for these animals, they know best.
So, there's a level of narcissism and paranoia in there as well.
My favorite line from a hoarder when asked why she had these dogs, many of them were in poor condition and she could reduce her population by offering some up for adoption and she was allegedly a rescue group and the best line I've ever heard was, "I wouldn't give one of my dogs to Jesus Christ if he walked in the door."
So nobody is good enough, nobody meets their standard of care, they believe they are absolutely the best person.
They usually have no respect for veterinarians, they think veterinarians don't know what they're doing, they certainly have no respect for animal rescue groups, so that really pathological narcissism is quite often in some of the animal hoarders as well.Interviewer: Can you ever think of a case of an animal hoarder who gained a degree of insight over time, or who came to understand their behavior differently?
Interviewee: I've heard of one or two people who have particularly, if they have other complicating factors like other anxiety disorders or depression, I've heard of a few hospitalized hoarders who after some pharmacological interventions briefly seemed to show some insight like, "Why is it I have so many animals?" And yet, they relapsed.
I had one hoarder who was probably kind of low on the sheet, she had about 20 cats I think at one point so not a real extreme case, but she was also a social worker and while she was in treatment she did seem to have achieved some insight.
And actually I learned quite a bit from her because she would describe to me the anxiety she felt days and nights reading websites of petfinder.com and places like that of animals for adoption, and she would describe how she would read about everyone.
Or also one of the things we see in hoarders is anxiety over making wrong decisions, and she described to me a station where she actually used to get thrown out of pet food stores because she would spend a long time walking up and down the isles writing down all the ingredients of all the cat food, trying to find what was the best cat food, and when she finally was down to a manageable number of three to four cats but also had a hamster, she described to me her anxiety of trying to find the best exercise wheel to buy for her hamster, couldn't decide and bought 3 different ones and brought them home.
So again, that anxiety over making bad decisions that impact their animals, even though they're making incredibly bad decisions when it comes to actual care.
Interviewer: So this might be a hard questions or maybe it's something that you've already clearly sorted out for yourself, but where on the spectrum--or I guess to ask this question differently--are there other disorders that you think animal hoarding is closely related to?
So, that behavior you described sounds very obsessive compulsive, and I also wonder kind of as part two of this question, what you think the relationship is between animal hoarding and object hoarding?
Are they different types of the same thing?
Are they different expressions of the same impulse, or are they totally different?
Interviewee: They're not totally different, but there are different things--and there is some literature, you know Randy Frost has written some stuff on the distinction between the two.
What was the first part of the question?
I forgot now.Interviewer: So where is animal hoarding in relation to other disorders?
So there's high comorbidity of depression or with object hoarding often.
Interviewee: Right, right, we certainly do see a number of different potential co-morbidities.
Initially we used to talk about animal addicts, we used to view it as a form of addictive behavior, and again quite a few of our hoarders also do seem to have substance abuse problems or quite a few in my experience have been children of substance abusers, particularly daughters of alcoholics, it seems to not be an uncommon scenario.
So there are those problems, there is depression, there have seen some with schizophrenia, some seem to perhaps be borderline personality.
So there are a lot of potential co-occurring things that again might be part of the whole process of the onset of hoarding might be related to a lot of other attachment disorders.
Our current thinking seems to be more along the line of attachment disorders rather than obsessive-compulsive disorder partly because, and I don't have a lot of experience working with obsessive-compulsive disorders but, one of the main differences I know in the literature and in my experience is the level of insight that somebody who is involved in engaging with, let's say repetitive behaviors and #1 knows that that is unusual and might even be somewhat disturbed by that.
The hoarders I meet are again extremely defensive and I wouldn't say enjoy their hoarding, but one of the lines we hear quite often is without the animals in their care they will die.
There is a lot of suicidal ideation and we used to be kind of inclined to dismiss that as a strange abnormal attachment they had, but we have had a couple of instances of hoarders who have committed suicide, which is why when we do a rescue operation, and particularly on a rescue hoarder that might have a large number of animals, we always bring along a mental health team as well and even ambulances in some cases.
And to the first part of the--so, the main distinguishing characteristics, it varies in the different states what percentage of animal hoarders are also object hoarders but it's pretty high.
In my experience most of them at least have some degree of other object hoarding, and sometimes it is extensive.
Sometimes we have object hoarding situations where the large number of animals present are not necessarily part of the original intent, but you have tons of news papers and news papers attract rodents and rodents attract cats, and you wind up with a large number of cats even though you're not a cat hoarder.
But certainly in many of the animal hoarding situations that animal care and control or the main law enforcement go in on, you are maneuvering your way through your lab of newspapers and trash and all kinds of stuff.
So, there is certainly a lot of overlap there, there are a couple of things that I think potentially make animal hoarding different.
There's a level of viewing objects that you hoard with human characteristics or again you hear people saying, "If I throw this out it's like killing it."
Even though it's a record, or a bottle or a magazine.Interviewer: So they kind of personify or over-empathize with objects.
Interviewee: Right, whereas actually letting an animal go is actually killing it or potentially killing it, the greatest anxiety a lot of the animal hoarders have is their animals will be taken away and euthanized, and the reality is it becomes almost a self-fulfilling prophesy because the animals deteriorate.
We're pretty good at bringing hoarder dogs back to reasonable health, we're not very good at rescuing hoarded cats because of high instances of colony blind diseases and they're just generally more fragile and don't do nearly as well in hoarding situations, the mortality rates tend to be higher.
So first of all, whereas your collection of coasters isn't going to reciprocate your presumed love and affection, but the dog does, and so because animals obviously even when kept under very poor conditions will still display affection to their inadequate care giver, that reinforces their notion of "I must be a good person because this dog loves me."
And I have lots of videos of hoarders picking up the dogs and the dogs lick their face, "so how can you say I'm a bad owner?
My dog loves me."
So that's something you never get in pure object hoarding.
The objects may bring them joy but a hoarded animal gives what looks like love, so that's a major difference.
Interviewer: It does sound like you see them as different kinds of the same thing, or at least of existing on a spectrum.
Interviewee: Right, right, the depth of potential attachment to an animal is obviously much stronger, and then in terms of being the public health aspect as I said, you know, animals pee and poor and reproduce and die, which your toasters don't.Interviewer: So perhaps the reason we could speculate--and cut me off if you think that this is wrong--but we could speculate that maybe part of the reason that the rate of recidivism tends to be so high with animal hoarding and insight tends to be so low, while it is in object hoarding I think it's uniquely low in animal hoarding, could perhaps be because it requires so much more investment in terms of keeping the animals, so much more investment in the beliefs about the animals and also the animals kind of give back more than objects.
Interviewee: Yeah the animals give back more and in terms of the emotional investment, again I wasn't necessarily trained or all that familiar with self-psychology, I've talked to a number of people that that's their main focus, but I certainly see it as--and when we teach responders in how to deal with animal hoarders, we have to respect the fact that this is the core of their being.
This is how they define themselves, they spend all of their time, most of their money, and all of their psychological investment in their own self-worth and their own image of themselves in their perception that they are helping animals, even if it's a delusion that they are helping animals.
So that's the thing that makes it so potent, if they have everything invested in this relationship and if you take their animals away from them I think it's worse than going into an object hoarder's home and cleaning it up.
That's obviously still going to be disturbing to them, but for a lot of the animals, you take all their animals away and you're almost literally ripping their heart out and that becomes a very hot topic that we still debate among people responding to animal hoarding situations, is it's very common in animal cruelty cases that if there is a conviction or proof of animal cruelty, you issue a no-contact order, you can't have any more animals, and we debated back and forth whether that is necessary in responding to hoarding situations.
Do you let them keep some?
How many?
And so on.
As with alcohol treatment, you have those that basically say, "You can't be a social drinker if you're an alcoholic, you have to go to complete abstinence" versus those who say "you can learn to be a social drinker."
My own view, what I personally recommend and seems to work is for a variety of reasons I like to recommend that convicted animal hoarders be allowed to keep a small number of animals, usually no more than five, probably maybe three for a couple of reasons.
Number one, judges don't like taking people's stuff away from them, so they are very sympathetic and I've been lectured by judges for being too mean to sweet old ladies if we take their animals away or any of their animals away.
So that makes the court proceed a little easier, it also seems to reduce the stresses of separation anxiety pulling animals away, but also tactically it now gives us reason to require random access to their environment.
So, you have to agree as part of your condition to probation to unannounced reasonable home visits to make sure you only have those three dogs.
And basically if whoever is monitoring the situation comes back and sees that you now have seven dogs, that's contempt of court, you could go to jail.
So, my own practical tactical belief is it is appropriate to allow keeping some stuff, just like you wouldn't send an object hoarder into an empty home.Interviewer: So, maybe some degree of ownership of animals helps to kind of mitigate that distress that they experience and also helps--go ahead.
Interviewee: We don't have data to necessarily support that, it makes sense but if often puts us into conflict with sometimes the animal advocates say, "this person did horrible things to animals and they should never be allowed to have any animals again."
We try to be very realistic, and these are not bad people, these are people who for a wide variety of reasons have done things that have harmed animals and the tactic--and I sent you the paper I think--the approaches that seem to work are either relapse prevention approach, or harm minimization.
You know, recognize they're gonna want animals, they need animals as part of their definition of self and our role as interveners is to minimize the harm that can be done, and that means monitoring the situation, helping providing a safety net for them and their animals if they need social services, if they need mental health counseling, if they need financial assistance.
What effective hoarding task forces try to do is meet some of those needs while monitoring the situation to focus on relapse prevention.
Interviewer: How much do individuals with animal hoarding actually get psychological counseling or get treatment in the courts?
Because I know they are very resistant to the idea that they have a problem, and then they go through the court system and they're very defensive and resistant to the idea that they have a problem, and they don't want their animals taken away.
Is there a kind of, are there animal hoarders who have treatment?
Or have you seen them in treatment?
Interviewee: A few, and it's still rare that you get compliance and part of the problem too is that if the situation is really quite severe, so they've been unable to provide for the animal's medical needs and spay/neuter needs and proper diet and so on, often they're on public assistance or medicare or whatever and often there are limits to what public systems will provide in terms of psychological assessment, maybe 8-12 visits, well that's not enough.
LAUGHS You know, life-long monitoring probably, so in my experience, the only...I've had a few cases where wealthier clients who have the resources have basically agreed to monitoring, counseling, participation at the condition of avoiding any kind of jail time or whatever.
And they've often been among the less severely debilitated-type cases, but also they have the resources.
Like I have one woman who had 109 Lhasa Apso dogs and they were seized.
She got them back when she was able to actually build a facility for them that was nicer than the local animal shelter and hire caretakers.
She still is a hoarder psychologically, she still depends on these animals as part of her definition of self, but it's not an animal hoarding case and she's not engaged in any kind of criminal behavior, but she's not cured.Interviewer: That seems to be something that's a little bit different than with object hoarding is, while there's these DSM-V criteria that are applied that are applied to individuals to see if they are individuals with hoarding disorder, but it seems that process of diagnosis happens quite infrequently with animal hoarding, it tends to be a situation where there either is or is not legal intervention necessary and that's as far as it goes.
Interviewee: Did I send you, or I can send you if you don't have it the article that [NAME] and I wrote on case outcomes in--
Interviewer: No you didn't but I would love it, yeah
Interviewee: Do you have it?
Interviewer: No, I can look it up though but I would love it if you could send it to me, I spoke to [NAME].
Interviewee: Yeah I definitely will send it to you, it's now probably we really should revisit that because obviously we're much farther down the road, I should talk to [NAME] about re-doing it, it was a little difficult to put together obviously as a follow up.
We followed more than 50 cases and obviously there's much more psychological--that was even before the recognition of hoarding disorder, so it's time to do a follow-up.
But that will at least give you the early stages of recognition of the problem, what the different case outcomes were.
A major shift I've seen probably in the last five years and particularly since the inclusion of hoarding disorder is much less advocacy for jail time and we've all obviously pushed for that and that's part of the general trend, again what we're talking with the prosecutors today about is basically a trend away from incarceration in general or as someone, one of our California DAs said, "nobody in California goes to jail anymore"S.
And of courts all the courts are pushing for well can't we have intervention treatment or whatever, unfortunately we don't have the magic treatment and as you well know, even in object hoarding cases the recidivism rate is still quite high and in animal hoarding seems to be even higher.Interviewer: Well it sounds like maybe it's moving in the same direction as object hoarding disorder, maybe like five or ten years ago where it's starting to be moved form this kind of like marginalized, criminalized behavior-oriented, punishment-oriented thinking towards more mental illness treatment-oriented thinking and so perhaps there will be more.
Interviewee: As a big difference though in object hoarding, let's say you have really messy hoarding situations, at worst that's usually going to be a civil intervention, if law gets involved it's going to be violations or code violations or so-on, it's not a criminal case; whereas with animal hoarding, if animals are dying that's criminal and that's the big difference.
Another major difference between object hoarding and animal hoarding, I can't think off the top of my head of anybody that's been charged criminally for object hoarding alone.
And that was one of our other discussions today is what we're also trying to do is resolve some of the animal hoarding problems civilly rather than criminally, or both.
So usually, let's say we have an animal hoarding situation, what we try to do is have essentially a seizure hearing where the animals are removed, or most of the animals are removed in a civil proceeding.
We're not gonna charge you with animal cruelty, but we are going to essentially try to have you declared let's say an unfit owner, I know Florida law has knocked it on their stature, things like that but we're not filing criminal charges.
I've got interesting stuff, I think it was in the paper I sent, the advice from the Texas district attorney's association, they basically recommend responding to hoarding situations by combining civil and criminal prosecutions.
Basically, you know, you seize the animals civilly, and then if there are animal deaths or whatever, it's necessary to proceed criminally.
And more and more I think what we're gonna try to do is to resolve these as much as possible civilly, and frankly the main motivation for pursuing criminal charges is not incarceration, but to get court-mandated treatment, even though we realize #1 there's no well-identified effective treatment, and #2 there's very low compliance.
But also what we try to do is if there are criminal proceedings, you try to get a long period of probation, which then lets you monitor the situation and gives you a little bit of a stick.
You know, if you do go beyond your three permitted animals or whatever, it's a violation of your probation and there could otherwise be consequences.Interviewer: Do you think that hoarding disorder or that animal hoarding is going to be brought out or should be brought out as an official sub-type with it's own diagnostic criteria in the DSM?
Interviewee: You know, I don't think--it's an interesting question because as a practical measure in how we respond it clearly is different, it requires different resources to address in terms of the underlying psychology, there probably are differences because of the reciprocal nature of the attachment to the animals as opposed to objects, whether or not that is different enough to make it a totally different diagnosis I don't know.
The question I get a lot sometimes is if there is going to be a referral of an animal hoarder to a mental health professional, the court might often ask, "Can you refer me to someone who is a specialist in animal hoarding?" And the cases are few and far between enough in any one jurisdiction that you don't necessarily get a specialist like that, and usually what I say is we'll find someone who is familiar with dealing with hoarding disorder in general, and if they don't already know some of the other peculiarities associated with animal hoarding, we can certainly give them some of the background resources that will help improve their ability to better understand that, but I don't know that we need to treat it totally differently.
Interviewer: And that there aren't that many clinical experts anyway and you wouldn't find somebody who's an expert in the treatment of animal hoarding disorder in any case, this doesn't exist.
Interviewee: Exactly, right and Randy Frost doesn't want any more referralsS.Interviewer: We talked in the beginning of the interview about the reasons that people give for keeping their animals or for hoarding animals, and I wonder if in your mind those reasons are actually what is driving their behavior, or are those reasons kind of a post-hoc justification for what is a kind of fundamental underlying need to--?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that's closer to the reality partly because of the actual situation.
They say, "Well I'm saving these animals or otherwise they would just be abandoned or would die" or whatever, and that's I guess another quality we really haven't discussed.
It's one of the things that's almost universal in the animal hoarders, is this strong aversion to euthanasia under any conditions.
The big disconnect between animal hoarders, rescue hoarders in particular and conventional animal shelters or animal rescue groups that will euthanize animals for illness or extreme behavior problems or whatever--is accepting the notion of a life not worth living.
Our view in conventional animal protection is there are worse things than death for an animal, or for a human in my view, and living a life of pain and suffering with open bleeding wounds and severed spines and things like that are in view of most of us a life of not worth living, a fate worth death.
That concept of a life not worth living is totally aliens to animal hoarders.
What you hear time and time again is, "Well it's alive," and coupled with that is their own fear of mortality--and again, that I think relates back to the fact that for many hoarders and animal hoarders, one of the triggering events seems to be loss, death of a child, death of a sibling, death of a parent, death of a spouse.
And that's something you don't worry about with object hoarding, except the intent that they view losing a loved object as being equivalent to killing it or having it die.Interviewer: Do you have any sense, and I'm coming to the end of the interview I know that I've taken up a lot of your time today.
Do you have any sense of what the life course is of animal hoarding?
Is it something that the person has been at risk for their whole life even when they're children, or is it something that develops abruptly at a certain age?
Interviewee: I think it seems to be, the literature seems to be moving in the direction that there are pre-dispositions that often show up in adolescents or even the twenties seem to become perhaps solidified a bit by mid thirties and obviously increases with age, and one of the things we haven't talked about is also as with collecting and object hoarding and so on, there is a spectrum to where you know everybody has some degree of clutter, everybody collects some things or other and everybody sometimes sees uniqueness in some of the stuff they have that other people might not see.
So that's part of the perception with some of the other pathologies, that it's not a totally alien thought-process.
For a lot of people it is an exaggeration of something that is normally there in a lot of people, but then goes to such an extreme and certainly we see that in dealing a lot with animal professionals.
One of the things when I've talked to groups, for example with the characteristic I say one of the characteristics with hoarders is it takes them, their relationships with their animals takes up most of their social interactions, most of their time, and most of their money, and then I'll ask a group of animal control officers, "How true is that of you?" And of course all the hands go up, because these are people as a profession that they spend most of their time, most of their money and most of their social interactions dealing with animal issues--but they're not hoarders.
Or I'll have people saying, "Oh gee I've got 10 cats, does that make me a hoarder?"
Interviewer: Well so that's a question because you're not, so with object hoarding as well there is this sense even among clinicians of the best way to know if somebody is a hoarder is to look at how much stuff they have, and it's striking to me that there really aren't other disorders in general where you would diagnose a person by looking at something external to them, how much they've accumulated and you point out the example of the women with the Lhasa Apso where you know, with object hoarding if you have a big enough house you will never fit the criteria for object hoarding, because you have enough space that it's never gonna get in the way of your--
Interviewee: Right, right,Interviewer: So the same thing with your Lhasa Apso example is, if you have enough money you can get as many dogs as you want.
So that for me raises the question of you know, is this a disorder only a disorder when it starts to interfere with the person's life?
Interviewee: Exactly--well, and that's practically if we get back to my original statement is where this becomes recognized is if it is interfering with your activities of daily living.
So, I have a cousin who's got a lot of stuff, but it doesn't quite block his door.
Now, if I visit him and I want to sleep on his fold-out couch, he has to spend quite a bit of time taking all the crap off his couchS so I can sleep, but his bed is clean.
Now he's got stacks of magazines around his bed, but he can sleep.
So technically he doesn't quite fit, he clearly has hoarder tendencies, but he wouldn't necessarily be on the clinical scales of the photos of stuff, he wouldn't quite qualify.
I still think the lady with the 109 well-cared for Lhasa Apsos is a hoarder, but it's not a hoarding case.
Interviewer: So then that's the question, is a disorder a thought or is a disorder a behavior?
Interviewee: I think...well it's a disorder of thought that often intrudes upon a behavior, although there can be factors that minimize the impact of the behavior or exacerbate the behavior.
Getting back to the whole notion of numbers, that's one of the issues I have is we have a couple of hoarding laws, either at the local level or the state level that define--I think originally the Hawaii law basically said that, you know, having more than twenty five animals then you--and of course the hoarding of animals research consortium agrees that you don't define hoarding disorder based on the number of animals.
It is based I think on the relationship and on the conditions, but that's one of the complicated things is as a legal criminal issue, as an animal protective issue you might have four poorly cared for animals but you don't recognize their problems.
And so at that level, your four animals might be hoarding, you might just not have the resources or the energy to go out and get more animals, and likewise you might have 20 animals and you invest all your time and money and they're well cared-for, and further complications socially--we've had this happen a few times--is you'll have someone like the woman who lives with the 109 Lhasa Apsos and everything's fine, and then she dies and who wants 109 Lhasa Apsos?
Then it becomes a problem of the state to deal with.
So it becomes a problem, it's not an animal cruelty problem but it still is a problem because it still was a disorder of sorts.
But I do see it is an internal disorder that reveals itself in a behavior, which may or may not negatively impact the animals depending on a lot of other conditions.
Interviewer: Mhhm, mhmm.
Well I really appreciate your time today so just to wrap up, that was all the questions.