Interviewee: It's surprising to me that experts are disagreeing that much when we have the actual DSM-V criteria.
Interviewer: Yeah, we can talk about it.
Let me get--I would like to talk about it with you at the end of the interview so that I can get your, your kind of off the cuff impressions first.
Interviewee: Oh right, good point.
Unbiased, yeah, good point.
Interviewer: But no, I would love to hear your thoughts about results because you know we're nearing 30 interviews, and these are interviews really with people who are the experts of all experts on this disorder, the group that we would hope would have the most consistent responses.
Interviewee: Right, that's what's kind of worrying but, like you said, we'll talk about that at the end.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: But yeah, you would hope that the 30 of us would have come to an agreement.
Interviewer: Yeah, so there is agreement on some topics, but there's still disagreement on some aspects so, I think it's worthwhile to know about that.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Okay, so those are all the lists that I have for you today, I really appreciate you doing that with me.
Now I'd like to move more into the interview.
Interviewee: Yeah, that was fun.
Interviewer: Yeah, I mean it's always interesting particularly to see, at least we've just been interviewing clinicians, but the list that is most different I think is the underlying causes, and it really depends on people's backgrounds, the things that might contribute to hoarding disorder, which is probably not a surprise to you.
Interviewee: Yeah.
It's interesting, probably I think the whole trauma thing is a big divider.
There's a group of people, maybe clinicians more so, who just think it all comes down to trauma, and then I think there's a variance with researchers who think it's a factor but not the whole factor, is that what's happening?
Interviewer: Yeah, I mean it tends to be people who answer genetics or biology as their first answer and then they generate a certain kind of list, and people who answer something more kind of cognitive like you did like attention or like cognitive function, and then there's maybe like a third group who give very psychological sort of answers where it's more like about the person's life and experiences.
And that's just a general trend, people have always seemed to have a mix, but the order that they put them in I think will be very interesting to breakdown based on different kinds of clinicians and researchers, how they think about it.
Interviewee: Yeah, cuz unfortunately all these things are so messy, there's gonna be an interaction of all those things, and I didn't mention genetics but I do think that creates a backdrop when these things happen.
So then I guess the question is the relative contribution is more interesting, because probably genetics do play a role, yeah probably beliefs do play a role, and yes stressful early life events might contribute, so then I guess the question is what are the most important factors, or what people, I guess the clinicians, think is most important and whether or not that's what the clients think it most important.Interviewer: Exactly, and one of the things that I ask, and I'm gonna ask you later in the interview but I guess I can jump ahead and ask it now since we're talking about this, one of the ways I get at this through the interview is I ask the question: So we talked about all these reasons for saving, to what extent do you think that these reasons are what's driving the behavior, or do you think that perhaps the behavior is what's coming first and the reasons are kind of created post hoc as justifications for an underlying need?
So like when somebody is exhibiting this behavior, is it because they have a problem with their thought process where they truly believe that, you know, they're going to screw up the environment or they're gonna need it later, or is it that they're saving it and then when you ask them, "Why do you saved this?" they come up with a with a reason that seems to make sense to them why they would save it, but it's really behavioral driven?
Interviewee: Right, that's a really good question and I think that we need more research to iron out, but the other thing I think about that sometimes is that it can be some central problem that's driving lot's of different things in their lives.
So, for example if it's problems with concentration in decision making and attention, yes maybe that does create the hoarding problems and I don't think it's a post hoc explanation really, but could be, but I also think it's something that drives lot's of problems across lots of domains in their lives, it's not just the hoarding.
But yeah, that's a really good question.
Some of the stuff I was talking about like the chronic fatigue, the conductivity, the clinical medical problems, I don't think they come from the hoarding and I don't think they cause the hoarding, but I think there are certain underlying genetic environmental predispositions that lead to both hoarding and problems with chronic pain, obesity, life stressors, etcetera, like these more generic underlying risk factors.
Does that make sense?Interviewer: Totally, yeah.
Another interesting thing that has happened with this list, I gave you the list of "How would you know that somebody has hoarding disorder?" And some clinicians take it the way you did where it was like, "How would I diagnose a person and know if they came in my office?" But some clinicians have started to generate these lists, and I think that they're just interpreting the question differently, I don't think that this is a difference in understanding, but it's very interesting to me nonetheless, they give a list of what a person with hoarding disorder would look like, like what are some other characteristics of that person apart from their hoarding.
Interviewee: Like sitting in the waiting room without talking to them, yeah that did kind of cross my mind a little, but you're right I didn't go that direction.
That's more of the detective way, like can you tell without someone saying, "I have trouble throwing things away", which is obvious that they might have hoarding problems, but could you see.
I think there are some interesting things like when we had a hoarding treatment group, when the hoarding treatment group would come into the waiting room, people knew before they said, "I'm here for hoarding treatment" that that's what they were there for.
They do present differently from clients with other types of anxiety and mood disorders.
I think that's why I've always kind of talked about cognitive stuff first, being biased because of my own research, but also because of when we have had that experience of treating lots of disorders but who's in the waiting room, you see a lot more of disheveled, confused, attentionally challenged, forgetting things in the restroom, that kind of stuff going on.
Interviewer: So if you were to paint me a picture of a typical hoarding patient, what would they look like?
Interviewee: Yeah, I would say more quirky and eccentric looking, more disheveled, more chaotic looking, sometimes more socially awkward, but some people with hoarding are really socially engaging and charming, but other people just present as a little bit more socially awkward.
Not to the extreme of something like schizophrenia but more in the schizotypy, slightly odd or unusual presentation.
Yeah, so that's I think sometimes--and also, probably more struggling across domains.
You can have people sitting in the waiting room looking for panic disorder who on all apparent circumstances look quite high functioning, but people with hoarding often times look like they're facing lot's of different struggles.Interviewer: So I'll give you a typical picture, a lot of what you said resonates with everybody's kind of idea.
They'll say like a person who talks a lot and talks kind of tangentially and seems like they have trouble zeroing in on the topic of conversation sometimes, like you said, very frazzled, they tend to be kind of like get overly emotionally empathetic or overly involved in other people's lives and business and drama, they are always late for everything, they always have a ton of stuff with them everywhere they go, they are very disorganized in every aspect of their life, so they can't manage their calendar, stuff like that.
Interviewee: Yeah, and I guess the positive aspect of that that sometimes goes along with it is they do some--not everyone, but again as a stereotype, really interested in things and kind of creative.
So, really like, "What is this lecture series that's happening?" Or "Why are you answering that question?" Or "I saw on my way in that they're doing a rally for this" so just kind of generally, I would say on the positive side, creative, intellectually curious kind of people would be the counter point in terms of things you see that are kind of fun and nice about hoarding clients, I find.
Interviewer: It's interesting too, and I don't know if this is just because the people I've interviewed generally like all of their clients, but I feel like experts in hoarding disorder, as you just did, often go out of their way to say like, "Actually there's really nice things about these people as well."
Interviewee: I hope it's not because we all perceive there to be a stigma against it.
Interviewer: Yeah, maybe, I don't know I just--
Interviewee: Which I think there is.
Interviewer: Yeah, there definitely is, but I've definitely had the experience of clinicians often times kind of pointing out the creative and interesting aspect of people with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, oh good.
Interviewer: Yeah, anyway,
Interviewee: I mean that's probably the reason some of us have chosen to work with it as well.
Interviewer: Right, there's a bias there for sure.
So, just to kind of dive into the rest of our interview script, if you wouldn't mind just giving me like a two minute overview of your experience in terms of this disorder and, you know, if you see patients clinically, if you're mostly involved with research.
Interviewee: Okay, so, starting in Graduate school I was running hoarding treatment groups supervised by [NAME] and then decided to do that as my PhD research and from that time on, have done a series of studies over the last two decades.
I guess the first one would've been 2003-ish, so not quite two decades, decade and a half.
Studies on hoarding, cognitive functioning, emotional functioning, treatment of hoarding.
And while that has happened, I've been doing some treatment of hoarding, a little bit of clinical work, but much more research and supervision.
So, I supervise, my most recent clinical experience is that I supervise the weakly hoarding treatment groups through a community center and also through units at my university clinic.
So, we meet regularly and go through all the hoarding clients and that's been going on for three of four years.Interviewer: Okay, so just to get into kind of talking about the diagnostic criteria now, for you, what do you think are the most important differences between the spectrum of normal saving behavior, such as perhaps extreme collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I mean I always fall back on like the DSM interference and distress, but I think that's probably a little bit of a banal answer or not exactly what you're looking for.
What is the main difference?
I guess maybe your ability to be realistic about your ability to and your need to keep things, that we all might have a moment where I think, "Aww, there's 20 million of my children's books, I would love to keep them all," but then I'm able to realistically think about how much I'm going to use them and how much space I have in my home and make the decision according to that, versus being driven by my emotions and my anxiety to just keep everything.
I don't know how that's gonna be well summarized, but, balancing out your desire to save things with more pragmatic, realistic decision making.
I guess there's also the fact of probably not having as many--that would be the other obvious thing is, while I may have those feelings of attachment and wanting to save a few things, people with hoarding have them about a lot of things, so that would be the other major distinction.
That we all struggle with certain items, but people with hoarding it's often the vast majority of items that gets them.
Interviewer: And do you think it's possible to have a person with hoarding disorder who saves only a particular kind of item?
So, a person who has an extensive like cuckoo clock collection that fills their home would still fit the criteria.
Interviewee: Cuckoo clocks, that might be harder to fit the criteria because you could possibly be a connoisseur and it sounds less-likely that it could dominate your living space completely, but I have seen people that, for example, primarily collect bikes, but they're old and broken bikes, and they do fill up their homes, their garage, their living space, their bedrooms, and they're not organized, they're not high value, and yes it's one item, but it is a problem.
I think it's rare because usually people have more of a mix, but I do think it's possible.
Interviewer: So, the kind of indiscriminate nature of the saving is not a firm diagnostic criteria, but it does tend to be less discriminant?
Interviewee: Um, I guess I would say, cuz even the bike scenario, that it is still indiscriminate.
So, if you have one type of item you're saving but you're discriminant about...selective about those items, that you only are saving nice, valuable, could sell in the market place bikes or cuckoo clocks, that it would be hard to make the case that it was hoarding.
However, if it was suddenly any cuckoo-related product or parts of broken down ones, and you just filled your house with ones that were no longer functioning or valuable to anyone but you and it is indiscriminate, even if it is a single type of item.
So, I guess you could still use indiscriminate, whether you're indiscriminately saving a range of items or indiscriminately saving one item without properly acknowledging the value and the functioning aspects of those items.Interviewer: The really extreme example is a, I read an article in the newspaper about a couple who died whose home was absolutely impassable and was filled to the brim with their art collection, and their art collection turned out to be valued at millions and millions of dollars, they were actually art collectors and they had a lot of knowledge, you know, they had Picassos and Matisse, and all kinds of stuff, but completely not on display, filling their home, making their rooms jam-packed, and they knew where the stuff was and they knew what they had but it was not organized.
Interviewee: That's a great extreme example, what did people do with that one?
Interviewer: Yeah,
Interviewee: Are you just an art collector with not enough space?
Because if they had more space and more assistance and stuff to organize it, it is all valuable art.
Interviewer: Sure, yeah, I mean--
Interviewee: Yeah, they're still disorganized about it, they're still chaotic about it, they're still letting it get in the way of their functioning.
That's a great example.
Interviewer: And where do you think that would fall?
I mean, how would you make that call?
Interviewee: How I would make that call is I would probably need to go into their home and see what's happening.
So if it was the case that they had a small apartment but they were really finding all these amazing things and it was just starting to impede on their space, I probably wouldn't give them a diagnosis.
But if it had that chaotic nature where they weren't doing any problem solving, they were collecting other stuff that was, I don't know.
I don't think I would diagnose it in that case, possibly.
I'm going to say maybe no. Are they still able to--I mean how severe has it gotten in terms of the use of their home?
Are they not sleeping in their beds, are they not using their showers, are they not cooking because they have art everywhere, literally?
Or is it just pretty crowded because of all the art?
Interviewer: My understanding from the newspaper article that I read was that it was like every square inch of their home was jam-packed, but like I wasn't there so I don't know.
Interviewee: So, they really were kind of having to squish their way through.
They really couldn't do anything in their home.
Interviewer: I mean, where this is reflected in the DSM-V is the difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value, and I guess I'm wondering like, is the inability to properly evaluate or value items a necessary part of the disorder or not?
Interviewee: Right, and I guess if you just go back to our general psychiatric classification system and try and step back from hoarding per se, it's still a disorder if they're not functioning in their home.
If they're not able to bathe and they're not eating well, and they're feeling distraught and embarrassed to have people over, then there's still something that's gone wrong there there.
It's a weird case of hoarding because everything's valuable, but it seems like it is a disorder and what disorder could it be besides hoarding?
If they're getting to the point where it really is making them miserable and/or unable to function.Interviewer: Okay, can you think of an example of a specific case or cases where you personally had trouble making diagnostic decisions, either whether it was true hoarding or subclinical hoarding, or whether it was hoarding or something else.
Interviewee: Yeah, where that's why I kind of like your art example because in reality, I feel like that rarely happens.
Almost always, I'd say 99% of the time, I'm pretty clear about whether it's hoarding or not.
I guess the only times I do have occasional challenges where it's like, is this hoarding secondary to depression or alcohol or schizophrenia, that sometimes comes up, but not really as much related to the nature of the collection.
It's usually pretty clear, it's disorganized, it's disheveled, there might be some things of value in there, but they've gotten overwhelmed.
The stuff has taken over, and they're no longer in control.
So, I don't usually have trouble based on the stuff that they're hoarding making a decision on.
The bigger decisions for me are, "Okay there's some squalor happening, the person's not getting out of bed, they're not taking care of their functioning, is this hoarding and squalor secondary to just not being able to maintain their activities of daily living?"
Interviewer: So, along those lines kind of how do you make the distinction between a person, or do you find it difficult to distinguish between a person who has a primary diagnosis or hoarding disorder versus a primary diagnosis of depression, which is causing them to not be able to throw stuff out because they're too depressed to get up and do it?
Interviewee: Yeah, so my key question with that one is, "Okay, if I were to come over tomorrow and throw things away to help you clear out your house, how would you feel?" And a person with depression is usually like, "That would be great, please do that."
You know, maybe they would want to point out a few things to save, but they just have such apathy and overwhelmed and so depressed, they can't do it.
But a person who is actually hoarding would say, "No, I don't want to throw any of those things away" or "I would really struggle or feel really unsettled if you threw any of these things away" and then it's clear that there is that core feature of difficulty discarding and attachment.
So, it's not apathy that leads to inability to motivate to discard, but actual difficulty discarding.
That's for me the way I kind of navigate that one.Interviewer: Do you ever have trouble making the distinction between hoarding disorder and perhaps an obsessive compulsive disorder, where they're not throwing things away for reasons that are based in kind of more compulsions rather than being hoarding disorder?
So, somebody who doesn't throw stuff away because they're worried about losing something that they might need, or they're really fearful of kind of germs and they don't want to touch their stuff to throw it out?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that in that latter case with the germs, you're able to figure that out pretty quickly.
There are some cases that might be a little trickier, and then I think I look for other types of OCD symptom dimensions.
So, if one thing is that they're saving all their toe nail clippings because they don't want part of themselves thrown out, and the other things are more traditional OCD contamination intrusive thoughts about whatever, I might wrap it up with the OCD.
But if the only thing is possessions, I would be more likely to give it hoarding.
Interviewer: Do you think that someone can have both obsessive compulsive disorder and hoarding as separate things?
Interviewee: Yes, I have seen people who have both, yeah.
I'm thinking of one guy in particular, he had contamination concerns and hoarding and it made the hoarding treatment really difficult because everything he needed to throw away he needed to wear gloves and go through an elaborate procedure, but that wasn't the only reason, as you were describing in the previous example, that he wasn't throwing them away.
The also was really attached to them and had trouble making decisions about them and wanted to save everything, the OCD just added another layer of complications, but wasn't the only driving factor.
Like, "Oh if you could dispose of this without having any germs, would you throw it all away?" "No, no, I wouldn't, I still need all my stuff."
So, yeah, I've seen people have both.
Interviewer: Do you feel like it's common for people to have both, or it's pretty unusual?
Interviewee: I'd say it's not that common.
I think that was one of our kind of misguided early research things, when it was considered part of OCD and people still think that way when you submit papers or talk in clinical settings, that it's all still highly connected OCD, and I think the comorbidity research and my own clinical experience has found that you're much more likely to see a person with hoarding with depression and social anxiety and worry, generalized anxiety disorder, than a person with hoarding who has critical OCD, separate to the hoarding.
I think that's born out by the research, but also, we see that might be 1 in 20 or 30 that we see that has hoarding plus OCD, but half of our sample is depressed.
Interviewer: And I guess, this again I'm asking you to kind of speculate, but do you feel like they have comorbid depression because perhaps those are genetically related, or do you feel like they have comorbid depression because of the impact that hoarding disorder is having on their life?
Interviewee: Definitely more the former, they have underlying environmental genetic vulnerability to emotional disorders.
They had a hard life and they have genetic predisposition, and they have all these problems that have led to both, not like they would have been fine but the hoarding made them sad.Interviewer: Okay, do you believe that, or have you seen cases of subclinical hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Rarely, sometimes, sometimes the young people will do some testing with undergraduates and we see like, "oh dear, this could be hoarding one day."
Right now to keep it all in their dorm room or they live with their parents and it's all in their room, but the emotional attachment that they have to possessions makes us fearful that they will eventually when they hit 30, 40, 50, have it.
Interviewer: Well so, that brings me to a question that I was going to ask you later but I can ask now, it said: as I'm sure you're aware, the literature shows that hoarding disorder's more common in elderly people, and I guess what I'm wondering is do you see that as being kind of like... it is progressive?
Interviewee: An artifact.
Interviewer: Yeah, and it's progressive in the sense that it gets worse as you age or do you see it as a result of social factors like elderly people have had more time to accumulate items, perhaps they have had their parents die and dump a bunch of items on them, perhaps their children are now out of the house and their spouse has divorced them because of this behavior and now it's all out of control and that's why we're seeing them?
So like has the impulse gotten worse over their lifespan, or has it just gotten to the point in older people where they can no longer control it, also because of cognitive or mobility issues?
Interviewee: I think both of those things and an artifact of the way that we do research and when people finally develop insight motivation.
So, sometimes people who have hoarding problems in their 20s and 30s haven't had enough problems associated with it, were not coming in for treatment, but yeah I do think that actually, I wish I could pick one or the other, but it's both.
I think that people do...the hoarding impulse might get stronger, they might get more disheveled, more life stressors over time, but also that you're right, it's just the sheer volume of stuff adds up, which is not what you get with other disorders.
But, people we see now that are undergrads, they might have had serious hoarding urges, but the amount of stuff that they've saved is still able to be contained in a room, and if they keep on at this going rate, it's like with eating habits and things sometimes you think that if you could just, if you said, "If this is what you eat every day, this is what you'll look like in 10 years", same thing with hoarding.
Like, "If you continue to hold on to this much stuff, this is like your house will look like in 10 years."
But right now it doesn't just because time hasn't allowed that much stuff to accumulate, which is your second point.
But also, yeah I think that because there's those factors of trauma and stresses, that people who might've been sentimental savors and then have stressful life events happen, their depression got worse, they have become...have had other medical problems and the actual hoarding tendencies also became stronger, as well as, like you said, the accumulation of stuff.Interviewer: Okay, so as we get into our discussion of the DSM-V a little bit more, I'm wondering if just kind of off the top of your head there are particular elements of the criteria that you kind of have suspected or suspect may be difficult to apply or that different clinicians that might apply differently, perhaps due to clinical judgment.
Is there anything that sticks out to you,, like in reflecting on those criteria as--?
Interviewee: Honestly, no. I mean, I guess prior to this conversation I thought they seemed reasonably clear and solid and I didn't have any real concerns about being able to apply them.
Now that you're raising it, I'm sure I can understand how some things are being interpreted differently.
But, before this conversation, I thought it was fairly straightforward, pretty good criteria.
Interviewer: Okay, and I guess like, just to take a step back and clarify, the purpose of this study was never to critique the DSM-V criteria, and it may be that this is the best criteria that there could be, I mean like there may just be--
Interviewee: Oh yeah, I wasn't implying that you're critiquing it, I just think it's interesting that people are applying it differently, and that hasn't really occurred to me.
I mean, I guess I may be overly optimistic like, "Oh now we have criteria, we're all applying them" and it's probably realistic and reasonable to find that no, there are still some discrepancies in how people are considering things.
But good to know, I think it's good that you're doing this.
Interviewer: So, for this criteria, the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, so the clutter criteria, and substantially compromises their intended use.
So, how do you make that determination, and I'll follow up that question in a moment but when a patient comes into your office, how do you make that determination?
Do you get them to describe their space, do you look at photographs of their space?
Interviewee: Yeah, ideally both.
Get them to describe their space, get them to provide photographs, and then use the clutter image rating scale to appoint photographs, if they don't have photographs.
And then I do those for the functioning thing and I start talking about things that we as humans need to do in our homes, and finding out which of those things are causing problems in which rooms.
But sometimes it gets tricky with that, that is one area that now I'm reflecting on, and what can be tricky is people live with other people, and they might describe hoarding that seems quite severe but is localized and we wonder, "Is that hoarding now and is it crossing the clinical line if all of it is contained to your garage and your second bedroom and your storage space?" And usually it's much more straight forward if it's crossed into their main living room and they have that clear interference with activities of daily living.
But then we can also fall back on the distress, so maybe they have so much stuff in their garage, their second bedroom, and their living room and it's causing conflict and distress and they're really upset and they can't figure out how to get rid of this and they're really attached, but they might still be clinical even though they're able to shower and cook and watch TV and socialize, because of their spouse they've kept certain areas clear.Interviewer: Right, kind of to take that one step further, how would you use this criteria in like an adolescent or a child who's space is being actively managed and controlled by somebody else?
Interviewee: Yeah, I find that really tricky and, to be fair, I don't actually assess or diagnose many kids with hoarding, but it is something that encouraged me and it has happened more with our Uni students, which is something that I do deal with regularly, is how do you figure out what would happen if the external constraints were removed?
And again, that's where I go a bit with the distress criterion, because I think if it's because of the parents being or the roommates being contained to one area, but the person is still struggling on a daily basis with their buying things that they don't need or that they're feeling upset about how much of their personal space has been taken over, or getting into fights.
A lot of it is conflict because maybe their mom or dad is saying, "You need to throw away a couple of these books, you now have 400, and they're crying saying, "No, I can't" I think at that point, I would probably say it's a problem, it's a disorder because it's causing so much distress and conflict and yes it isn't causing interference because it's being contained by those external pressures, but that doesn't mean that it isn't a problem and it wouldn't be a really important thing to intervene now.Interviewer: What about, you know you could imagine two patients, right, and they're exhibiting, they have the exact same cognition, perhaps they have the same life experience these two hypothetical patients, they save the same amount of items, and one of them has a lot of money and can afford to buy six storage areas and has basically a mansion to live in; whereas, the other one lives in a one bedroom apartment.
So, one of them is going to have the appearance of much much much more clutter than the other, although they both have the same kind of underlying...even like brain behavior, you know what I mean like they have the same thoughts.
How do you decide that--would you decide that they both have hoarding disorder, although one of them isn't cluttered?
Would you decide that only the person in the apartment has hoarding disorder or, what?
How would you make that call?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think I would still be going back to conflict in distress in that case.
They might both very well have hoarding disorder.
We have had lots of hoarding clients who say that, "If I just had enough money to buy enough storage to put all my stuff, I wouldn't have any problem."
But, okay, the one in the bedroom apartment would be a clear-cut case, okay you have hoarding disorder.
But the millionaire with the mansion, it's kind of the way the world works that probably that still would be causing them problems and conflicts, even with their family members not wanting them to be spending all this money on continuously setting up storage spaces and taking up more and more room in the mansion for their stuff.
And they might start having some insight into it, so I think that that person, depending on how that behavior was impacting them, could still meet for hoarding.
I guess you can imagine a case where they don't have any friends or family and they just keep filling up mansion after mansion, in this surreal experiment--and then I would probably say low insight, like yeah it's still hoarding.
Interviewer: Also, it's an example that we thought of because it was a real example that was given of a person who had a patient who was so rich that they could afford to keep everything and pay someone to organize it.
And the clinician that we talked to--
Interviewee: And pay someone to organize it, wow that's another idea too.
Right, because that would've been part of the problem.
So they could actually have someone to organize it and they just keep adding and adding.
Wow, what do other people think about that one?
Now that I'm answering, that's a tough one.
Interviewer: Yeah, I mean the clinician who reported the example said that she thought it probably was, but based on this criteria, couldn't give that diagnosis and instead classified it as OCD unspecified for the purposes of realism.
Because the person didn't meet the clutter criteria and didn't experience distresses, so.
Interviewee: PainfulInterviewer: So another example that was a real example that was given was a person who had a patient who hoarded exclusively digital media, who never deleted any emails and downloaded thousands and thousands of digital books and had hard drives filled with books that they would never read, but felt that they might someday; but, also didn't clutter their space because all of it was electronic media.
So like, thousands of movies, thousands of digital content essentially.
And the clinician was perplexed because if they were physical--
Interviewee: Yeah, I think in that one I would get kind of pragmatic, and maybe with the millionaire as well, in the sense that we have limited clinical resources and treatment resources so, if they person is not presenting to treatment, if it's just a hypothetical thought experiment, I would not be bothering to diagnose them with hoarding disorder.
Same with the millionaire, but then the interesting thing to me is actually when they're coming in to treatment seeking.
Once you're coming in for treatment, it's often time the case that you're having some distress or conflict about it, and at that point you've been the distress criteria and it doesn't matter if you have some weird management system, it's the clutter I guess that's the problem, not whether they're meeting interference or distress.
So, I guess yeah maybe those two cases wouldn't be technically meeting for hoarding.
I mean, definitely the digital person I would be probably not putting them down as hoarding, even though I can see why behaviorally, in terms of their beliefs, it's mimicking that and that the treatments could be quite similar.Interviewer: I mean, the odd thing about the clutter criteria, for me, is at least when you think about it sort of abstractly, it's hard to think of another example where we require something totally external to the patient in order to make a diagnosis.
In psychology, in psychiatry, in medicine in general, it's weird to think about looking at a person's space as a symptom or as a diagnostic criteria.
And if you were to take a parallel example with OCD, it's not as though if someone has like a hand washing obsession, that we ask to see their hands to say like, "Oh, have you washed your hands enough to qualify as OCD, are you losing skin?" You know, like the ideation and the belief and the behavior is enough, we don't really look at the consequences of the behavior in that was.
Interviewee: Yeah, I absolutely get that, but on the other hand, the pragmatic side of me and the side that knows that we're also up against a world that possibly rightfully pushes back against the idea of overpatholagizing everything and making everything into a disorder and a diagnosis, you know, there's all this kind of variation in how much stuff we want or have, and we just need to leave that alone and not be the psychiatrist fascists who get in there and diagnose everyone and create problems where there are none.
And we have finite resources, so in a way, I think sometimes the danger of removing things like that where hoarding is kind of, whether we like it or not, a more externally-based disorder, and if we start saying, "No, no, anyone who's saving lots of emails and they're upset about it" or "Anyone who would save a lot fo stuff if they could" it just might end up really stepping into the overpatholagizing spectrum, and also diverting resources in research.
So, I totally get what you're saying and I think it's such an interesting philosophical point; but on the other hand, I feel like it might be an imperfect system, but it's a way to say, "We're not trying to arbitrate people."
Like similarly thinking of obesity or other things, we're not trying to regulate how much stuff people have in the world or your relationship with your possessions, we're just trying to identify those cases where it's impacting upon the person's experience in the world and if there is no clutter--I mean that the other extreme then--would you be comfortable if the clutter criteria was removed completely, diagnosing hoarding in someone who said they had these big struggles with making decisions with objects all the time I guess, but that they hadn't saved anything?
They just lived in a perfectly clear environment, I think you'd get in a weird situation there.
Interviewer: No, I agree with you.
I definitely agree, I don't know that there's a--
Interviewee: It's such a tricky one.Interviewer: But, let's turn to that distress criteria because the answer you gave about distress and seeking treatment is common.
The genesis of this project is the problem of insight and the problem that you have a lot of patients with hoarding disorder who, you know, if you think about the kind of stereotypical example of a hoarding patient with low insight, has a house that's completely hoarded out, that's completely filled with stuff, lives fairly socially isolated, and until there's an external source of pressure, is happy living that way, at least in their own mind; so, they're not seeking treatment.
So, with that person, where's the distress?
Interviewee: I guess, for me, I allow it to be the distress that brought them into treatment, which may not be--you're absolutely right--distress about the stuff they have, but distress about the issues that have resulted from it.
So for me I'm perfectly happy that the distress they come in with is, "I'm going to be evicted, people are yelling at me, my sister's trying to make me throw out my stuff" is hoarding related, but you're right, it's not the distress they have about having too much stuff, it's whatever external issues have happened around that.
So, to me, the hoarding itself in my mind is causing the distress in their life, they think the distress is related to people won't leave them alone or the landlord is being unreasonable or their spouse wants to divorce them for unfair reasons.
But to me, hoarding is causing distress, and whether or not it's the hoarding directly to distress of the hoarding to impacting other people to distress, is important clinically, but not what I use to make the diagnosis.
So, if it's causing distress in their life, I don't need them to have insight necessarily that it's the hoarding yet, because there is so much low insight.
But still in the grand scheme, again, what is psychopathology and where is our role as clinicians in diagnosing and helping people?
It fits in my mind, this person is experiencing pain because of this problem they have, even if it's indirect.
Interviewer: And in a hypothetical scenario where the person doesn't have that conflict, so owns a home, doesn't have a landlord, lives in an isolated enough place that no one is contacting their space, that wouldn't fit criteria for you.
So, would that person have hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Um, it would, it would still fit criteria for me.
I guess I was talking more about the scenarios where they're coming in for treatment and not saying distress, that it would be easy.
But yeah, if I was then doing some sort of interview and I showed up to their house in Iceland and it was like, "I'm doing a community nationwide survey of hoarding" and I looked at their house and I saw that they were saving, I would still diagnose it as hoarding low insight.
So, but they have the mansion, right, so yeah that is a tricky one.
What's the interference?
It’d be good if you could start doing like global interference, like it's interfering because it's taking up huge amounts of resources and it has a major environmental impact to have four mansions in Iceland with your stuff, even if you don't realize it.Interviewer: I mean, it's tricky because you have this intended use criteria, and then you have to start asking yourself, "Well who's intent?" You know like, if you have a four-bedroom home and three of those rooms are filled with stuff, but there's only one person who needs a bedroom, you know like is that acceptable?
Is that the intended use for that person?
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean I guess at that point I'm willing to let it not be hoarding.
If they're not seeking treatment, right, so they're not having distress either directly or indirectly due to the hoarding, and they're living happily in their one thing, that then goes to my more "let people do what they want" feeling, like don't be a nanny state.
Okay, fine, let's focus on those people who do have distress and do have interference and come in with the insight or not, and not worry about that person.
But it would be different the replicate to me if I was doing an interview, like I said, a community-based survey to look at the prevalence of hoarding, would I really look at that person and say, "Nope, they don't have hoarding"?
I don't know.
Interviewer: I mean I guess it also presents a problem for research, because if you're excluding, like for instance, anyone who's space is managed by someone else, you're never gonna get kids in.
If you're excluding people who are not experiencing distress, then your really severe hoarders are never--
Interviewee: Yeah, excellent point.
From a public health perspective, you're right, that's the danger.
If I just said, "Fine, I'll let them be subclinical because they're not interference or distress currently" and I'll move on with my life, that might be fine in the short term because we're giving treatment to the people we want, but in terms of identifying the prevalence of the problem or finding those people before they die in all their relatives inherit their stuff and you create other problems, it doesn't really fix it.Interviewer: And, I mean, that sort of brings us really nicely to the next part of the interview and I don't want to take up more of your time than I have a right to; so, cut us off when you're done.
So, first of all, I guess I'll just jump right into, [NAME] published this paper about insight and hoarding, where he broke hoarding down into four different constructs, and the constructs are defensiveness; anosognosia, or the lack of ability to perceive an illness or that anything is wrong; overvalued ideation, which is believing that your items are more valuable than they are; or indifference.
And I wonder, when you think about insight, which of these 4 do you think about most?
Which do you kind of experience with patients most?
Interviewee: I'm sorry, could you just go through them one more time for me?
Overvalued ideation, what were the other three?
Interviewer: Overvalued ideation, so believing your items are more valuable than they truly are; anosognosia, which is being unable to perceive your illness or that something is wrong, causing distress, so kind of like illness blindness.
So, if somebody's had a stroke they don't notice that their left side is not responding.
Defensiveness, which is kind of related to not acknowledging it because they're worried about losing their things; and indifference, so saying, "I know that this space is unacceptable by most people's standards, but I don't care and I'm happy with it."
Interviewee: Okay, so are you asking which is the most common or which is the hardest to deal with?
Interviewer: Yeah, both I guess but mostly what do you think of when you think of insight in hoarding disorder.
All four of those or are there one or two that jump out at you as being, kind of, at the root of the problem?
Interviewee: I guess I kind of think of all of them, except for maybe--well, yeah I think of all of them to some extent.
I've seen them all in different clients.
Definitely the defensiveness, I think there's a lot of clients if you push past their concern and their fear and their anxiety, they know it's a problem.
Definitely the indifference, that's been coming up with some really low insight, like they just don't care.
And overvalued ideation, its like, "Yeah, I care but it's obviously not--".
I probably would say defensiveness and overvalued ideation would be my top two.
Interviewer: Okay, part of the reason that I'm asking you is both anosognosia, or illness blindness, and overvalued ideation almost sound like delusions.
So, like is the problem of insight in hoarding in your mind like, "I'm looking at my room full of stuff and I truly truly cannot see how bad it is" like, in the sense of a delusion.
Or--
Interviewee: That's why I don't fully buy the illness one.
But yeah, I do think that sometimes the thinking in hoarding is so skewed that it gets to the border of delusion.
Like an example would be a hoarding client who saves Easter eggs that she wanted to give to the neighborhood kids four years ago, and now they're rotten and bad, and she still can't throw them out and she has fantasies of just running down the street and throwing them on the ground because it would be less upsetting to her than throwing them in the bin.
Like, on some level it's crossing to this line of insight in delusionality that these rotten Easter eggs are still something meaningful and worth saving.
Like that overvalued ideation, it's yeah, not quite normal cognition.Interviewer: And I mean, where you really see this, or at least where I've really seen this in my interviews is with anybody who's had contact with animal hoarding.
People talk about animal hoarding as being like truly on the delusional spectrum, where they really believe that they're saving these animals that are dying on the floor.
Interviewee: Truly horrific, yeah, the things that they don't see, that they really truly believe that they love these animals and that these animals are suffering and that they can't see it is just a horrific combination.
Interviewer: So, I guess that is kind of my question.
If this distress criteria is a necessary component to the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, but at the same time we're saying that the disorder itself may have a delusional component whereby they truly can't see the things that would be distressing to them, how do we make the diagnosis?
Interviewee: What about my weasel strategy of they might not be distressed because of the animal or the items, but they are distressed because people are threatening to take their animals away or people are yelling at them about their clutter.
That's like my weasel way around it, I mean I guess that it's not great but it avoids to be stripping away all these criteria, now you don't have to have distress, you don't have to have interference, you don't have to have clutter, and again we end up at the thing where like, does everyone have hoarding?
I have too many books or I'm upset about trying to decide what of my daughter's clothes to give away or you know, everyone can relate to some attachment to possessions, and I don't think--we have enough problems justifying it as a disorder that if we strip away too much of being selective about it, we risk even more being considered what I would call a small and trivial disorder where people think, "It's just that old ladies have too many trinkets."
So I think in some way, staying a bit conservative is kind of important.
But, yeah I do take your point that it should be able to say--that's why I like my weasel strategy, it could say someone has hoarding disorder and distress, like my Easter egg lady.
She was very distressed about her hoarding, but not necessarily about the object themselves but about the impact in her life.
And you could still say she has low insight, that she thinks all these things are still worth saving and that they themselves are not the problem.Interviewer: Yeah, I agree with you.
I agree that like the pragmatic, these these criteria are very pragmatic and they make sense for those reasons, and I'm not again like I agree that there may not be a better way of doing this.
I'm just uneasy, again, because just like with the clutter criteria themselves and the distress criteria, we've come to a place where the disorder is again external to the patient.
We're relying on a landlord or a family member to cause the distress, the distress is a product of their disorder.
It's kind of like a side effect, you know like, they save stuff as a side effect of having the behavior or the beliefs.
Interviewee: So, if you strip that away I mean I think these are all important, interesting questions, I'm just thinking like okay if you strip those things away, everything that is external is no longer.
It would be another interesting thought experiment to think what would you have left?
Just difficulty discarding?
Is that it?
That you feel an emotional distress or are upset about throwing things away?
And would people feel comfortable with that being a disorder?
Interviewer: Yeah, something like rigidity in their beliefs about saving, like lack of ability to moderate.
Something along those lines, it would have to be very--because you know, and again, I'm not saying that that would be better, it would definitely be way harder to use, but when you think about like--
Interviewee: It's an important conversation, it reminds me a little bit, I guess you would argue this is still central to the person, if you removed all the weight criteria from anorexia and said like there's so many young women and men and people who just constantly obsessively worry about their weight and dieting and whatever, but they're normal weight or slightly overweight.
What if we just said, "Well, weight shouldn't matter, they're still struggling, they're still obsessing every day, they're stills upset about their weight, let's just get rid of that and we don't need them to be 20% underweight."
I mean, that would just create so many problems, right, in terms of the pragmatic world of the medical system.
But, in a way, you could see it.
They're still weighing themselves constantly and dieting constantly and thinking about their weight constantly, so I kind of think of that sort of parallel.
Like yes, there are probably ways, if you stripped all that away and just looked at people's rigidity about their stuff and whether their thinking had distorted beliefs and whether they had trouble throwing things away, you get some more pure kernel essence that's driving it.
But if you think about what's making it a disorder in the world, you have to start putting these pragmatic things on it that acknowledge the fact that we have limited resources, and that we all struggle to some extent with our possessions and say like what in the world says that this is something that we need to intervene?
Part of the nature of the diagnostic system is saying, "When do we need to intervene?" And if we intervene every time someone has rigid thinking about their stuff, and every time they have trouble making decision, then it's impossible.
But if we contrive it to those cases where everyone can see, like the house is overflowing, the person is distraught, that--I guess that's arguing for dimensional system of hoarding too, that you could say, "The stuff you're talking about, the quirky elements that reside within individuals are really important and they fluctuate on a continuum, but still when it crosses the line for intervention is still different.
I don't know, really interesting philosophical point though.
I like your idea that how it does rely on all these external things to make the diagnosis.Interviewer: To me, when it becomes a pragmatic problem, and again, my point in saying this is not to say there is a potential way of doing this better because there may just not be, is less for treatment.
For clinicians you're getting the people who want to be treated, you're getting the people whose lives are being impacted, those are the people that you're getting; but for research, in terms of really understanding the disorder, if you're systematically excluding people who are so extreme and delusional that they don't have any distress, or on the other hand people whose spaces are managed by others, like children, you know like you have to I guess be careful at a certain time that these pragmatic criteria are not kind of cutting off sections of the population who just won't reach this point for other reasons.
You know, that's where you get into research--
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean I think it's a fantastic point.
I do wonder if it's a minority of cases, but I do think it's an interesting point.
And I don't know if it's that problematic, now that I think about it.
I love the question, your question of relying on other people to create the distress, but I don't know if in actuality it does create so much problems, because we are all people who live and function within a world, within other humans and other things around us.
And so if our distress is driven by the fact that our behavior is causing problems of conflict in the world around us, whether it's friends, or families, or neighbors, or landlords, or work, employers, anyone, I mean those are all humans but also space-related things, then maybe that's okay.
Maybe it's not perfect, but it still suggests that you're putting the person in context.
That people don't live like little space people floating around in the world, and if the distress that they experience related to their hoarding is related to the people and organizations around them, that's okay.
Maybe it's unrealistic to think that the person's floating in a bubble and just looking at them and their thoughts and beliefs and not how it's playing out in their context.
Interviewer: Sure, that makes total sense.
Yeah, I mean, I think the--
Interviewee: I think it'd be a really cool debate though; I think it's such an interesting point your raising would be is this really worth considering?
And also worth considering the ways in which hoarding is different from other disorders, I think about this all the time.
We talk about in Australia, there's this advertisement for a storage company now that says like, "I'm not a hoarder, I just have attachment issues" and my PhD student was like, "You know if this was eating disorders, no one would think it's acceptable to say, "I'm not anorexic, I'm just on a diet" or "I'm not--" you know, whatever, "I'm not schizophrenic, I'm just a creative thinker" no one would think that's acceptable, but with hoarding everyone laughs and this its acceptable and funny.
And there's so many things like that where you see that hoarding has a different kind of place in the world than all these other disorders.Interviewer: Yeah, it is interesting and I guess for me, there's like so many things that are interesting.
So, something that I wanted to ask you about as well as somebody who's seen patients in Australia and also in the U.S., if you were to say hoarding is really behavioral and the reasons that people give, I mean regardless of why people give the reasons they give, part of the reasons that they give is to justify their saving behavior.
So, what they're saying when they give the reason for saving to justify it is like, "Oh but this is acceptable saving in some culturally agreed upon way."
So, like, "I'm not crazy, I'm saving this for a rational reason."
So the reasons that they give kind of give away a little bit--
Interviewee: post hoc justificationsInterviewer: Yeah, well even if they're not post hoc, even if they're real justifications, they still see them as justifications.
So, what they are saying is, "There are good reasons for saving objects in our society and I am saving objects in a way that is acceptable," and so I guess what I'm wondering, to frame this as a question is, from the US to Australia, do you see any differences in the way that people would justify this?
Like this scrupulosity that [NAME] talks about, environmental ways or, you know, there's really a spectrum, and so I'm wondering, is what people are saying when they give these justifications some kind of litany of reasons that we as a society have said, "It's okay to save a lot of things."
So like, sentimental reasons, or environmental reasons, or usefulness.
Are these like some kind of way that we as a society justify saving in general and hoarders are just using them?
And if so, is that different in Australia?
Interviewee: Absolutely, and what the person thinks is more of a justification.
So, wherever I go on TV or radio and talk about clutter and hoarding, I notice people get really hopped up, particularly about the idea of discarding books.
I think that speaks to your point a little bit, that people see--everyone agrees that books are great, right, and knowledge and literature, and books are this cornerstone of our civilization, and how could you ask me to throw our book?
So, they might save a whole bunch of other stuff, but they hang on to that as something that seems morally defensible.
"You're asking me to throw out my books, that seems like it would make me an evil person," and I also love books so, I get what they're talking about.
But I would say maybe what's also interesting about your point is not just cultural differences, and I'm not sure there's sufficient differences in the culture of Australia and the U.S., I mean there are some differences in that domain, but also differences in time.
I think since I grew up in the 80s, there's been a lot more awareness of environmental impact and landfall and plastic.
I mean, where I live has a particular emphasis on plastic in the oceans because I live near the water, but in general that awareness, I would like to see whether or not that has heightened over time.
I think, and I would have some weird memory bias here, but when I was treating hoarding patients as a student, like in the early 2000s, there was less talk of, "Landfill, it's going to landfill" and now that that's become heightened in everyone's mind, there is a lot more talk in our hoarding groups of "I just can't bear this is going to go and sit in landfill."
So, I wonder in a way sometimes I think about how the intersection between public policy regarding we need people to recycle, we need people to reuse, we need people not to just throw things away mindlessly, has interacted with hoarding clients.
Their environmental scrupulosity, like I guess I wonder whether Randy's measure is going to go up and up and up in time, and whether in some ways it's a good thing.
Like as a population we need to become more environmentally scrupulous, but the hoarding clients it's problematic because it means that sometimes they can't see that, yes this is going to landfill and there really is no other option.
What I always talk about with clients is like, if you find something that's actually not recyclable in your home, and it can't be recycled and it can't be reused, then no one wants it, like--I don't know of a good example, like a broken piece of a plastic toy--you can say you can't throw it away because you really don't want it to go to landfill, but then what happens is the landfill becomes your house.
Your house is the landfill, and eventually when you die that landfill will get moved to the real landfill, but you're not doing any favors to the landfill by keeping the landfill in your house.
Um, anyways, sorry that was a long rant but my point is I do think that cultural, socially sanctioned reasons is a really amazing, great point as well but I've seen more changes with time than across the U.S. vs Australia.Interviewer: One way that I am trying to get at that change over time, and this might seem like a silly way, but it's the only way that I've thought of, is the TV show, "Hoarders" has now been on for 10 seasons.
So, I'm gonna go through every episode in code for why people say they're saving items and see if it changes over time.
Granted, that's a very small sample size, but it's 10 episodes a season and there's two people per episode, so 20 hoarders a year for 10 years, just to see how it shifts.
Interviewee: Wow, that is such a great idea.
Yeah, I love it.
Interviewer: We'll see how it goes.
Interviewee: I think people have done interesting stigma stuff, [NAME] I think is doing it, I can't pronounce his last name correctly but showing people's attitudes, this is a different question but, pre- and post- watching the show, "Hoarders" and how it affects their feelings of stigma, but I think using that show over time is also really interesting to see reasons for saving, how they've changed.
Interviewer: We'll see how it goes.
Interviewee: Isn't there a British hoarding show as well as an American one?
Interviewer: Yeah, there's like a ton.
And part of what I'm coding for as I watch the episodes, and I'd love your input on it because I've kind of...it's still taking shape, I've got a bunch of undergrads who are working on this with me and we're all kind of coding this together, is all kinds of stuff, so like how much social services are talked about, and eviction.
When people express their reasons for distress, like why are people distressed in different scenarios?
And kind of the purpose behind that is like, imagine you're a person with this disorder, who's watching the show and identifying with the distress.
How much are you being told like, "If I go out and get treatment, what will happen is social services."
You know, how is how is treatment described in the show?
What are the long term impacts of hoarding disorder as described by the show?
To kind of see what message it's sending and how that plays into this problem of seeking treatment and being retained in treatment.
But anyway, we'll see what happens.
Interviewee: Yeah, I love it.
Who are you working with, sorry I've lost track from our long ago scheduling e-mails.
Where are you?
Interviewer: I'm at the University of Florida.