Interviewer1: Ok. Well I appreciate you doing that with us.
That’s just the listing part, and now I’d like to transition us into the interview, which will be more conversational.
And just to kind of get us started in talking about your experiences and your knowledge of this topic, uhm if you wouldn’t mind just giving us a brief background related to how you became involved with hoarding disorder and what your professional interactions with hoarders are.
Interviewee: Ok.
uh, let me see- so I work in the UNIVERSITY  OCD intensive treatment program.
So, we encounter hoarders in that program, and in the early days when we were looking at our outcome data, we noticed that hoarders, which were usually lumped into the- under the heading of OCD, hoarders were really making our data look bad; so we decided to look at hoarders separately.
And so, then we started getting into more research on hoarders, trying to look at them and see what was different about hoarders and why they didn’t respond as well to the typical treatment for OCD.
Uhm, so I started doing that.
And also started getting into some of the brain imaging studies with [NAME] , who’s now in San Diego.
So-
Interviewer1: And what is your educational background?
How did you come to work at the center?
Interviewee: Uh, so I’m a nurse and a marriage and family therapist.
And back in the day I was a research associate as well.
I’m no longer a research associate.
Now my work is-
Interviewer1: Do you see patients clinically?
Interviewee: Yeah, now my work with hoarders is mostly clinical, not research based.
Interviewer1: And how long has it been that you’ve worked with these patients specifically?
Interviewee: Oh my gosh, probably since the early 90’s.
Interviewer1: Ok, well thank you.
Uh, Interviewer 2 do you want to take the next question?
Interviewer2: Yeah, so uh the next question that we want to ask you is if you can talk to us about what the most important differences are between normal saving behavior, like collecting perhaps, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think people who save things as a collection are usually able to take care of their collection.
So they organize it in a very methodical way that preserves that collection.
But people with hoarding, well first of all, collect anything and everything, but they can’t organize it, they can’t-- if they collect stamps, their stamps would be just kind of thrown willy-nilly all throughout the house in no particular order.
Uhm people who collect tend to be able to organize things and keep them in a space that preserves them, whereas people with hoarding would not be able to do that.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok. And can you talk to us a little bit about the demographics of the typical hoarding patients that you would see?
What do they look like?
Interviewee: Uhm, gosh.
I think most of the patients that we see, slightly more women than men, usually are older demographic- but not always; so older would be late 40’s and up.
But we do see a few younger people who, you know, just left college and hoarding is a problem, but it doesn’t manifest so much in excessive stuff, it manifests more in severe executive functioning stuff, with a little bit of emphasis on stuff.
I don’t know, is that too broad?
Uh what else?
Interviewer2: No not at all-
Interviewee: Uh, usually not married.
Usually single, typically, but not always.Interviewer2: Yeah, that’s great.
Are there any other differences that you’ve noted?
You know, racially, in terms of SES, rural versus urban?
Interviewee: Economically, I would say lower economic class.
But that-- yes, for sure.
These are people who are struggling financially, mostly.
Ethnicity, mostly white, but that can be because we’re a hospital that only takes insurance and things like that- that might not represent the general population at all.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok. And can you think of a specific case or maybe a couple cases that were challenging to diagnose, either clinically or in research, because the individuals were on the border between pathological and nonpathological behavior, maybe subclinical?
And how you went about making that distinction?
Interviewee: Huh… I can’t think of many cases where it was difficult to diagnose because of- there was subclinical.
Usually it’s more difficult to diagnose because the person with hoarding is very much trying to keep it a secret or very much minimize the problem, but we would use the very typical standard kind of clinical definition of hoarding; if they have so much stuff that they cant use areas of their home for their intended function or they are tending to accumulate stuff that the rest of us might think of as junk or excessive, we do put a little bit more emphasis I think-- at UNIVERSITY  we put a bit more emphasis on executive functioning deficits too- that that’s a huge part of hoarding disorder that isn’t necessarily in the clinical criteria.
Interviewer2: How did that manifest in the patients that you’ll see with deficits?
Interviewee: Very disorganized, unable to make decisions, unable to prioritize, difficulty initiating a task, difficulty completing tasks-- Even the most mundane, banal, simple tasks, they typically struggle with.
Interviewer1: Do you feel like it’s sometimes difficult to make a clinical diagnosis of hoarding disorder in terms of other, either concomitant mental health problems that the person might have or because they might look similar to Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and other mental health disorders?
Interviewee: No, I mean, I’m kind of used to doing pretty thorough and pretty extensive evaluations.
So, we would do a thorough evaluation for OCD and we’d do a thorough evaluation for hoarding disorder.
If we suspect hoarding disorder, we always ask for photographs of the home- they bring in photographs of their home; we usually go down and look at their car.
No, I think we can usually-- I don’t think we’ve had much, kind of a quizzical diagnosis with hoarding disorder.
But maybe we deal with a specific range of hoarding disorders, so we do deal with the kind of mild to moderate to moderate to severe range.
We don’t really deal with extreme severe hoarding disorder, not the kind of stuff that you see on the shows all the time- sometimes but not very often.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Uhm so kind of to continue along these lines, we want to think through the DSM5 criteria with you; just in terms of seeing how its applied, seeing how the individual, kind of, criteria come into play in making a diagnosis.
So, for the next portion of the interview, I’d like to just read you the criteria and then get your- kind of get your feedback on how you think about them and how you’ve used them.
And you’ve used these criteria with the intent of diagnosing an individual with hoarding disorder, correct?
Interviewee: Right.Interviewer: Ok. So, I’m going to read you the first one and then I just want to know about your thought process in terms of how you apply it to individual patients.
So, the first one that were interested in is “Persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions, regardless of their actual value.”
And so, we were kind of wondering about the process of evaluation for hoarding disorder and how you look at, you know, the possessions that a person has accumulated and determine value, and whether it’s appropriate or not.
Interviewee: Mhm.
If I’m understanding the question correctly, I usually would start by asking people what kinds of things they tend to collect, their usual response is “everything,” so I kind of have to break it down.
And then just asking over and over again “What would happen if you didn’t have this stuff?” “Are you afraid if you didn’t have this?” “What would happen if you lost this stuff?” Or “What would happen if you couldn’t find it?” Uhm just asking the same question in a million different ways, just to really see what their response would be.
Interviewer: And what’s the response of a typical patient with hoarding disorder to that question?
Interviewee: “It’s important,” “It’s valuable,” “I’ll need it later…”
CROSS_TALK
Interviewer: [INAUDIBLE] so they can separate it from obsessive compulsive disorder where they might be more afraid that there will be some consequences or uhm is that why the purpose of that question?
Interviewee: I think yes, and, you know, some people with Obsessive Compulsive disorder might throw things away, but they’re going to save something like-- you know they throw it away because its contaminated, or they might say they’re going to keep it because they can’t touch it because its contaminated, or they keep it because their rituals prevent them touching it- like they can’t take the trash out because they can’t touch the trash.
So, there will be other reasons why they’re accumulating the stuff, but they will be very clear that they don’t really want it, it’s just that they can’t, for some reason or another, get rid of it.
Whereas someone with hoarding is actively trying to keep hold if it.
Interviewer: Ok.
So, for you, this criteria kind of- it gets at this question of whether people are valuing their items in an appropriate way.
And that, for you, is kind of very a key distinguishing factor for distinguishing hoarding from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: Right!
Well some people don’t throw things away because they’re afraid that there’s something in it.
But they can’t articulate what it is that’s in this bag, or in this envelope or in this pizza box, and then it’s a fine line- is this hoarding or is this OCD?
Because it’s a fear that they’re throwing something of value away- which, that’s what a lot of hoarders say- but that has a much more OCD flavor, in that they have to check everything a hundred times- they can get rid of it, but they spend 20 minutes checking the pizza box to see if there’s something in it; so, then it’s got a slightly different flavor.Interviewer: And when you’re talking about this kind of inappropriate evaluation that’s apart of hoarding disorder, how does this manifest, in your experience?
Is it an inappropriate monetary evaluation, so that they think that things are worth more money than they are?
Is it more of an emotional evaluation?
Or maybe an aesthetic evaluation?
Or does it just depend on the patient?
Interviewee: I think it very much depends on the patient.
I think it can be all of those.
It-- I mean some of them will say it’s a monetary thing and most of them are not wealthy people, money is an issue.
But when it actually comes down to it, it’s more, I think sometimes money- but mostly its value is in the memories or its potential value, and the value of not being wasteful, of being considered a frugal person or a creative person- it kind of defines them, their stuff.
Or the aesthetics of it, like someone with hoarding might look at a rusted-out bottle top- you know the aesthetics of that bottle top kind of calls to them.
Interviewer: Mhm.
So it’s not as simple as, you know, clear value that they like the idea that the stuff will be useful to them.
They like being able to use things and seeing them as useful.
So there can be kind of a range.
Interviewee: Yeah, and it being thought of as creative and individual.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok, uhm that’s interesting, it makes sense.
The next criteria I’d just like to have you talk through in the same way goes “The difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.”
So, I’m thinking about this one, how do you kind of go about making that determination of how much stuff is too much?
And do you think home size or other people in the home affect the degree to which you might see clutter in the space?
And how do you kind of grapple with those issues in making a diagnosis?
Interviewee: Uhm, sorry the lines very fuzzy so I’m only catching bits of what you’re saying.
Interviewer: I’m sorry.
Interviewee: No, that’s okay.
I’m fairly familiar with the diagnosis.
So, we would do an assessment of a- spending a lot of energy and time in accumulating stuff, like going out and buying stuff, going out and acquiring stuff.
Or is their stuff in the house stuff that normally comes in, like it comes into all of our homes, but they can’t get rid of it?
So, there’s that assessment.
And then there’s the assessment, you know, are there specific areas in their home that they can’t use for their intended purpose?
Would they be embarrassed if someone were to come into their home right now?
We have them take pictures of their home or we have them go to their home and we do FaceTime, so we can see what their home looks like.
Obviously, the younger people or married people, we would talk with their family members, because often their family members are the people that kind of put the brakes on or try to set limits with the amount of stuff that comes in.
And then we look at the actual stuff that they’re acquiring; you know, if they’re acquiring stuff like ten boxes of sauce pans on the home shopping channel or are they accumulating more kind of junk-like stuff like receipts and plastic bags and boxes and things.
CROSS_TALKInterviewer: So kind of-- if they’re acquiring more from the Home Shopping Network, that would be a different diagnosis?
That would be, maybe addictive acquiring as opposed to hoarding?
Interviewee: Well we would have to rule out compulsive shopping, not that that’s necessarily a DSM.
But our approach would still be hoarding, in that most people would think it’s pretty excessive- you don’t need 10 boxes of sauce pans.
But the way we would treat it would be a little different.
But it still might be hoarding-
CROSS_TALK
Interviewer: But do you find that its-
Interviewee: Sorry go ahead.
Interviewer: No, no, no. Go ahead.
Interviewee: No that’s okay.
Interviewer: I was just wondering if you find that home size is an issue when making determinations when people have really large houses with a lot of storage areas and storage units versus if they live in very small spaces and that might perhaps clutter more easily?
Or if you don’t really feel like that’s an issue?
Interviewee: Only a small- to a very small degree, because most people learn to live within their space.
So, people who don’t have hoarding, if they’re in a very small space, usually learn how to live within that space.
Uhm so, but to some degree it might be an issue to factor in, but I don’t think a huge degree.
Interviewer: Do you feel like the criteria that’s of- it substantially compromises the intended use.
Is there an extent in which you take into account what the patient might intend for the space?
So, for example, if the patient doesn’t cook they might not want to use their kitchen in quite the same way as somebody who is a cook, they might store things in it.
Or is that also not something that really comes up?
Interviewee: Uhm it doesn’t actually come up that much.
Because-- that’s a good question in a way, because most of the hoarders that I know actually do not cook, but they’ve never said, “I don’t use my kitchen, therefore I use it for something else.”
Uhm, so most of them, actually even though they might not cook, they want a functional kitchen, even to put their take-out food or their ready-meals or that kind of thing.
I think 99% of them, they will tell you they have every intention of cooking.
Again, that would be another project they would want to do down the line, but they’ve never gotten to.
So I’ve never had a hoarder say “I don’t need an office, because I don’t do office work, so I use this room for something else.”
I’ve not had that.
Interviewer: Mhm, so they seem to want to use it for whatever its intended purpose is, but they are not able to.
Interviewee: Yes.
Yes.Interviewer: Ok. And also kind of along those lines, so for healthy individuals there’s kind of a degree in variance in the free space that they like in their home.
So for example, some people might prefer to have a clear desk, while other people like to have things out and ready to go and don’t mind it being that cluttered.
Do you think that there’s perhaps a way that hoarding disorder is related to this or could be an extension of this variance that surpasses the officially acceptable threshold?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think when it moves from being functional to non-functional.
So some people like a more cluttered desk with everything to hand, but when that desk is so cluttered that they can’t find the things that they need to find and the things that they need to do at the desk, then it’s starting to kind of tip over onto a more non-functional or pathologic issue.
Interviewer: Mhm, mhm.
And do you find with your patients that they kind of enjoy their cluttered spaces?
That they like the sense of being surrounded by objects, like kind of feeling that closed in, cave-like environment?
Or do you find like that’s not really a part of it, that it’s just as a byproduct of the saving?
Interviewee: Right.
I don’t know if it’s like is the right word- comfortable and safe.
Uhm, yes.
I would agree that clutter and that kind of closed-in, what we would call claustrophobic feeling, makes them feel safe and secure; and when it starts to be cleared out, they definitely go through a very difficult period of getting used to that openness and it makes them feel extremely vulnerable.
And sometimes they might say they like the cluttered space, but I think its more they like the safe feeling, because when they are in another environment, either in someone else’s home or if they’re in a hotel room or something like that, they always say that they really love the spaciousness.
Interviewer: It’s just with their own space that they like that clutter.
Interviewee: Right, and I think its just that they like the security of feeling very- kind of like a cocoon, and they’ll do that gesture where they’ll wrap their arms around their body where they’re kind of enveloped, and that feels secure to them- they like that.Interviewer1: Mhm. That’s interesting.
So the very last criteria that I want to talk through with you in this way is one that says “This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and distress associated with discarding them.”
And so we were kind of wondering about how you assess the distress associated with discarding?
How do you determine how much distress with discarding is normal or abnormal?
And is it sometimes a problem for patients who perhaps have low insight into what’s going on with them- that they don’t admit to distress or they don’t think they would be distressed when they throw things away?
Interviewee: I think a lot of them- not all of them, but a lot of them- will articulate that they can throw it away or that they don’t really need the stuff, that it annoys them, that they keep it.
But the real test always- the actual test- is when you ask them to throw something away.
I think that’s the only way you can assess the level of distress; just going by their verbal report is totally unreliable.
Because when it comes down to it, no matter what they’ve said, they usually struggle to varying degrees with throwing it away.
The only test is to be with them when they’re trying to throw things away.
Interviewer1: Ok.
That kind of transitions us into the next section of the interview, which is going to be about insight.
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Interviewer1: About how- Go ahead Interviewer 2.
Interviewer2: Yeah, we just kind of want to get into, you know, literature surrounding hoarding disorder describing hoarders as often having low insight; and that might play into some of that conversation we were just having about how they might say they’re not distressed, but when they’re actually in the act of throwing things away or actually really have to think about it, they find that its more distressing than they thought.
So, kind of to start this portion of the conversation, we wanted to ask you, how do you define insight?
Interviewee: Uhm, usually when they can bring themselves into therapy and be aware that their hoarding is a problem, that its affecting their functioning, their ability to get things done, their relationship; when they’re aware they have trouble making decisions and following through on tasks.
Uhm, yes.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Interviewee: I thinks that probably it.
Yeah.
I’m always weary of the ones that come in and say that, you know, “it’s not that I have too much stuff, I just need help organizing it.”
And then I assess that their insight is probably not quite as good.
Or if they come in and say, “I don’t have a problem at all, but my husband brought me in.”
Or “the court said I have to be here.”
Interviewer2: Ok.
So what would you find that you see in your practice?
Do the majority of patients come in with that insight already?
Or is that a process that you take patients through?
Interviewee: Uhm, in the [INAUDIBLE] that I work in, most patients come in with some awareness that they have a problem, and they come in with a readiness to work on it, but that’s the nature of the situations that I work in.
So we wouldn’t accept someone into the UNIVERSITY program unless they were here on their own volition, just because if they were here against their will, they’re not going to be able to do the work that’s required of them.Interviewer: Ok. Ok. Are there any situations then, where you’ve had to help patients try to gain insight or go through that with them?
Interviewee: I mean, we’ve definitely tried to improve on their insight, for sure.
But by the time they come to us, they have some awareness that this is an issue, some awareness that they need to do something about it.
Oftentimes people with hoarding will admit that they have a problem with clutter and too much stuff, but they’re often blaming other people for it.
You know, “it’s because I’ve worked all my life and never had time to take care of it.”
Or “I don’t have time to take care of it because of the kids.”
Or “I don’t have time to take care of it for some other reason.”
They’re always blaming outside sources so that would be a marginal insight that there’s an issue, but it’s not their fault.
Uhm so it’s a huge gamut of insight, I think.
Interviewer: Yeah.
It seems that way.
And how would you help a patient try to gain insight or move further in that path towards recognition of the problem and the relationship with the disorder?
Interviewee: Here we do a lot of education.
So, in the first week that they’re in the program- and I do this in my private practice too- I do extensive evaluation of what hoarding is and what it looks like and how it manifests on a day to day level.
I do a lot of assessment and rating scales and give them feedback on those rating scales.
And then talk about treatment and the rationales of treatment, what treatment looks like and what we hope it’s going to do.
So, it’s kind of developing insight, but also developing motivation and having them buy into the treatment plan.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. And so, when your patients will come in with a greater degree of insight, the ones that do, how do you think that they came to that insight or that understanding on their own, of their problem?
Interviewee: I think it’s usually when, again, outside sources have been pushing them; family has kind of done an intervention or have been on their case, or a landlord has intervened and said something, or there’s been a threat-
Interviewer: Some kind of external source
Interviewee: Usually some external source makes them sit up and think “ok, this has gone on long enough, I have to do something about it”
We’ve had several patients where there’s been a risk of children being taken away, and that’s obviously been a huge motivation for them.
Uhm risk of eviction, or having to move to a new house and realizing they can’t, or a husband threatening to leave- that one doesn’t do it so much for some reason- but uhm, yeah.Interviewer2: Ok. So another thing we wanted to ask you about, in the literature there’s been a breakdown of insight into different constructs that may be more or less prevalent or might be confused for insight with relation to individuals with hoarding disorder.
So we were wondering how prevalent you find these different constructs in your patients?
So one of them is defensiveness, another is anosognosia or that lack of ability to perceive that your illness as a problem like we were talking about, overvalued ideation which is the unreasonable belief in the value of your items, and indifference.
Do you see any of those more or less commonly?
Interviewee: No, I think we see them all.
I’m not sure about the indifference, I would maybe argue that sometimes people with hoarding give the impression of indifference, but they’re certainly not indifferent by any stretch.
But I’m not sure if we would treat it differently.
We might have to work more slowly with, you know, those people that have poorer insight or more overvalued ideations than others, but I think the treatment model itself would stay the same.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And you see the other three about equally in the population that you work with?
Interviewee: Yes, yes, I think so.
I’m trying to think.
Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer1: Ok.
So, for the next section of the interview, we’re just going to ask you to talk through some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder might have for their behavior.
I know we had generated a list at the beginning of the interview, but just to get you thinking about them again, wed like to ask you to think through some of the questions from the adapted version of the Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale.
And to think about how, in your experience, your patients would respond to the question.
Uhm so for the first question, how do you think your patients would respond to “What do you think has caused you to have these behaviors, and do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?”
Interviewee: Right.
Uh, gosh I think that again, there’s that range, in terms of why they think they have hoarding.
Uhm a lot of them will argue that they were taught to be frugal, mom taught them to never throw anything away, that kind of thing.
A lot of them have a big investment in that whole creative thing, so they’ll say that they keep things because one day their going to write a biography about themselves and they need all these things to remind them of the time they went to the movie theatre with a friend 10 years ago or something like that; so, there’s that creative aspect.Some of them will attribute the hoarding to a trauma in their life.
And again, some of them will really downplay it and say that it’s not really that big a deal and they just need time to take care of it, but you know its been 10, 20, 30 years and they still haven’t found the time to deal with it.
A lot of them will use the excuse “well I’ve never had the time to take care of it.”
And in terms of this mental health problem, I think there’s been kind of an evolution there; in early days when I first started with hoarding, a lot of people would say that this is not a mental health issue; and they’ve been much more inclined to work with a professional organizer or friends to help them clean up their stuff, but I think in recent years people have been much more on board with the idea that this is indeed a mental health issue.
They’ve kind of been more on board with that, but that’s the evolution I think over the last 8 to 10 years.
Interviewer: So its there’s of been a movement of people being more accepting that this is an actual disorder instead of just a problem of organization that they can cope with.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: The other one we’d like you to think through how your patents would respond is “How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding them?” What do you think your patients would say in response to that?
Interviewee: Again, a range.
But again, what we’d come up with is ‘I need to keep it because it’ll come in useful, I’ll need it for later on, sentimental reasons, creativity reasons, being prepared reasons.’
Interviewer: So most of your patients seem very convinced that they actually need to keep the things.
Is there also that element that something bad will come of discarding it or something bad will happen if they throw it away?
Interviewee: Oh probably.
‘That they’ll be audited by the tax man,’ is a very common one; someone else will be mad at them, you know, “If I throw this book away my husband will be mad at me because he might want it,” so they like to put that on other people too; or you know “If I get rid of it, I wont have it down the line and it will be catastrophic if I don’t have this particular Tupperware box;” or “it’s a feeling of catastrophe for not having it,” is a common one- kind of exaggerated consequences of not having something that they needed.
Interviewer: And kind of in your opinion or your experience, do you think these explanations are post hoc reasons to justify this underlying pathological need or do you think that they’re in some sense real reasons?
Which do you think maybe came first, the urge to save or the reason for saving?
Interviewee: Gosh I never really thought of it like that.
That’s a good question.
You know I think that, just at the top of my head, I think I’d be more inclined to think that they save the stuff and then come up with the rationale, I think.
Uhm, but I’m not entirely sure.
But that makes more sense, I think they do, I think they’re keeping it and keeping it and they’re looking at it and keeping this rationale that kind of makes sense for them.Interviewer: So that would kind of imply to me- and correct me if I’m wrong just to talk through it- that hoarding is less about having, you know, perhaps thoughts that are incorrect than having this urge, which then the thoughts kind of cover up or justify.
Does that seem right to you?
Does that seem like as opposed to them having beliefs that are out of touch with reality, their beliefs are kind of secondary to their urge.
And I don’t know, I’m just trying to think through the question with you.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Hmm, I’ve never thought of it like this.
CROSS_TALK
Interviewer: We’re not holding you to it, just kind of speculate, you know?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think that rationale kind of makes sense.
That there’s that unquestioning need to have this thing- or not throw it away- because it makes them uncomfortable, and then they come up with a rationale that they can sit with for it.
Interviewer: Ok.
That makes sense.
And do you think that in any sense there are cultural forces that maybe associate value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions that might play a role in this disorder or do you think those are separating ideas?
Interviewee: I mean not more than what we’ve talked about, with the cultural-- the identity of being frugal or creative or respectful of other people- you know, when people with hoarding keep things belonging to their deceased mother or their father, that kind of thing.
So, there’s those kind of cultural things- those are cultural things that we value but… I don’t know am I answering that question?
Is that what you mean?
Interviewer: Yeah you are.
The question was about that and also to kind of think about whether people might want to have more things because their value is associated with people who have a lot of things, but that sounds like you’re saying it’s not related in quite that way.
Interviewee: No, I think it’s more about their identity.
A lot of the stuff they keep is critical to how they define themselves.
I see a lot of hoarders who are very, you know, if they’re working, imagine themselves in a very creative environment like uh a film producer or a screen writer- well we’re in L.A. anyway but-- people who can make quilts out of old ties or people who have worked in the past will save every single memo and dossier and folder that’s associated with their work, because their work defines them as who they were.
So I think most of the stuff that they keep, its about defining and validating themselves.
I worked with an older gentleman, he used to be a clown in the circus, and everything he kept was all about that.
It was all about toys, you know, broken down toys from children because his job was to make children happy.
It was all the clown suits, ticket stubs to the circus, it was everything that defined who he was, and I think that’s true of most people with hoarding; they keep stuff that validates them as a person.Interviewer1: Mhm. That makes sense.
Well I know that we are kind of at the end of the time that we allotted for this interview and I really appreciate your time and I want to be respectful of it.
Uhm Interviewer 2 do you want to ask maybe one or two last questions?
I know we don’t have much time left.
Interviewer2: Yeah, we only have a couple questions left and I think we actually went through a decent number of them in our conversation earlier so in describing the patients that will come into your office for treatment, how long would they say that the hoarding behavior has been going on before you see them?
Interviewee: Its usually been decades.
Usually they’ve been able to identify it- the majority have been able to identify it- from when they first left home, and some of them even before that.
There’s a teensy-weensy group- a very small group of people- that will come in who describe late on-set hoarding where its developed in their fifties or sixties, but that’s a very rare group.
Uhm and sometimes we see young people come in and they come in with OCD and with further assessment we realize that they not only have OCD, but they have early stages of hoarding disorder, and the only reason why the hoarding disorder hasn’t gotten out of control is because they still live with their family.
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Ok. Interviewee: So they’ve become, kind of, newer hoarders.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And you know, speaking of family, you said family and friends will often play a role in the patient coming in and identifying that something is wrong, or something is going on that needs treatment, and so just curious as to what relatives do you find are most often involved in that process with a patient?
Interviewee: Uh, in this program its usually extended family, not direct family.
So it will be brothers and sisters, daughters and sons, rather than and husbands and wives.
Most of the people that we see for hoarding here are actually single or divorced, which is rather telling.
Interviewer2: Definitely.
Well I think with that, that’s just about everything we wanted to ask you.
We want to be really respectful of your time, so we just wanted to thank you so much for talking to us and giving us a lot of those great answers to the questions that we have.
We really appreciate it.
Interviewee: Oh, you are very welcome.
You guys are doing great work.
Interviewer2: Thank you
Interviewer1: Thank you, and we appreciate your insights.
Could I just jump in at the very end and say that one of the things we ask people to do is to think up other people, after having done the interview, that they think we should talk to?
So, does anyone come to mind that you think we should definitely make sure we try to speak to for this project?
Interviewee: You might have already talked to them because they’re already on the [INAUDIBLE], but I would recommend [NAME] and [NAME] at UNIVERSITY
CROSS_TALK
And obviously , but I’m sure you’ve already talked to [NAME].
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Well we appreciate, again your time and thank you so much for the answers.
And so were going to continue interviewing clinicians and researchers and then transfer to hoarders and then we’ll follow up at that conclusion to let everyone know what we have found and what we plan to do.
So, thank you.
Interviewee: Ok, well good luck!
Interviewer1: Thank you, take care.
Interviewee: Bye.
Interviewer1: Bye.