Interviewer2: Um, I’m doing good.
I’m on the line with my colleague, [NAME] .
Interviewee: Hi [NAME] .
Interviewer1: Hi.
Nice to meet you.
Interviewee: Nice to meet you.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Um, well first of all we just wanted to say thank you so much to agreeing to meet and interview with us.
We’re really excited about this interview.
We both read a lot of your work on hoarding disorder, so we’re really excited to talk to you today.
Interviewee: Well, it’s my pleasure.
Interviewer2: We also, of course, wanted to thank you for sending out the email to the special interest group.
We set up several interviews through that and have conducted about five or six now.
We have a few more scheduled for later on.
We’re still continuing to receive replies, so thank you again for that.
Interviewee: Good.
Interviewer2: Just to kind of start things off, we have an informed consent that we’d like to read to you over the phone just to let you know a little but about the study, but really it was all in the email.
We’re trying to understand how patients and clinicians understand hoarding disorder and how that understanding might differ between clinicians and patients, and we eventually want to compare these interviews to patient interviews in order to see what differences and similarities might exist.
So there are of course no direct benefits to you for participating.
The biggest risk to you would be a violation of confidentiality.
You may withdraw and discontinue participation at any time, and if you decline to participate, no one will be told.
If you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview session, you have the right to decline to answer any questions or to end the interview if you so choose.
The interview will take about sixty minutes.
Some notes will be taken during the interview and an audio recording of the interview will be taken and transcribed.
If you don’t want to be recorded, you won’t be able to participate in the study.
Any information that could identify you will be removed from the transcription and the audio recording will be destroyed afterwards.
We will not identify you by name in any reports.
All of these precautions are in order to prevent your individual comments from having any negative repercussions.
Do you have any questions about any of that?
Interviewee: No, that sounds good.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Well thank you so much.
These are some great listings generated for us.
Kind of moving into the more free-form section of the interview.
We just kind of wanted to start out wondering if you could give us your background relating to hoarding disorder to kind of start off.
Interviewee: Ok.
I started studying hoarding disorder in about 1990, and at the time there was nothing out there in the literature on hoarding disorder.
So, the first project involved a newspaper advertisement that we put in the paper asking for people who describe themselves as packrats or chronic savers.
We had hundreds of responses and so the first study we did was in fact the first published scientific paper on hoarding was 1993, which was a review of that study or several studies relating to that using that population of a hundred people.
And since then, I’ve published I don’t know how many papers, 60 or 70 papers probably on hoarding of various kinds including a number of papers on phenomenology, some theoretical papers on theology, and a number of papers on treatment or interventions.Interviewer2: Ok. And can you tell us what your educational background is?
Interviewee: I have a PhD in clinical psychology.
Interviewer2: And so do you see patients with hoarding disorder clinically as well as conducting research?
Interviewee: I only see patients clinically in connection with a research study or as, in a supervisory capacity at a supervised therapist, at a local mental health center that has an OCD center where we treat hoarding.
So I don’t see the individual patients outside the context of some kind of research project other than that supervision.
Interviewer2: Ok.
[NAME]  would you like to take over with the…
Interviewer1: Yeah sure.
Hi again, kind of to echo what [NAME]  said at the start of this call, we have both really enjoyed reading your work.
And just to add to his little background, the next question of the interview: we’re trying to kind of understand the state of kind of, kind of a stratise on hoarding disorder right now to kind of see where the consensus is and on the different practitioners and how different people think about hoarding disorder as a kind of, um, you know, is becoming more recognized and more standardized as a disorder.
And then our goal is to see how hoarders themselves understand the disorder in order to understand, perhaps, disjunct between patient understanding and physician understanding in order to try to address problems with insight, or low insight, in patient population.
Some of these questions might be a little weird, but it might be helpful to think that, or to know for you that we’re going to ask patients these same questions and then the idea is to compare.
So, with that little disclaimer, we would just like to kind of start off pretty broadly by asking you what the most important differences are between normal saving behavior, such as collecting, and hoarding disorder in your mind?
Interviewee: Ok.
The basic difference between normal collecting and hoarding, uh, there are a couple.
First is the variety of possessions that are collected.
In normal collecting, the objects or possessions typically have a theme and those…it’s a restricted number of themes that collectors imploy.
In hoarding disorder, there are…there may be themes but there are multiple themes.
And for many people with hoarding disorder, there aren’t, um, there aren’t themes at all, it sort of applies to almost everything that comes into the person’s possession.
The narrowness of the category of objects that are saved is one dimension on which these things differ.
The other is the way in which the objects are collected.
In collecting behavior, it is more planful and targeted.
In hoarding disorder, the collection is more impulsive.
There is also a difference in volume that people with hoarding disorder, for the most part, have much more volume of possessions than people who collect.
Um, let’s see…related to that, that it’s the way in which the objects are displayed different.
In collecting, those objects are displayed in an organized fashion and there is an interest in displaying objects for other people to see and admire.
In hoarding disorder, the objects are typically arrayed in what appears to be a confused and unorganized manner, and there is typically very little interest.
In fact, maybe just the opposite.
Very little interest in allowing other people to see those objects.
So those are the major differences.Interviewer: Ok. And if you were to kind of picture a typical hoarding patient, or a typical patient with this disorder, what do they look like?
What are the demographics like?
Interviewee: Demographics for serious hoarding behavior, uh, someone who is in their fifties, mid- to late- fifties.
It appears to be, although studies differ, in general, it appears that it is equally prevalent in men and women.
In terms of appearance, there is very little that you can tell by looking at someone, except in some cases in severe hoarding cases there’s some dishevelment on part of the hoarding client, but that’s not the case with the majority of them but occasionally you see that.
Um, what else?
Interviewer: Some factors, you know, like socioeconomic status, race or religion, or regional – rural/urban.
Something like that.
Interviewee: Yeah, not much difference for rural/urban.
Some differences in socioeconomic status.
It is associated with lower levels of socioeconomic status, although the association is not a perfect correlation.
So we see that it is a cause of spectrum, but it is more frequent in people who have, typically have more financial difficulties than people who don’t.
They often don’t pay their taxes for a while in part of the disorganization.
Um, oh gosh, what else?
Interviewer: Race and ethnicity?
Interviewee: I don’t think… there’s not much evidence out there about race and ethnicity.
What we do see in some cases that it is, it appears to be as prevalent in African American groups as in Caucasian groups and perhaps maybe even more so.
And other than that, there’s not a lot of evidence.
There’s evidence that it’s sort of broad culturally.
You see this in every culture.
Not many studies have been done in different cultures outside of the Western world, but there are evidences of this in the East.
In China, Japan, for instance, there appears to be similar prevalence rates, but beyond that, not much culturally or at least internationally.Interviewer1: And, um, could you think of a specific case or a number of cases that were particularly difficult or challenging to diagnose either clinically or in research?
Because we are kind of on the border between pathological and non-pathological behavior or borderline sub-clinical.
And kind of talk through that case or cases and how you made the distinction between something that was sub-clinical or something that was not true hoarding disorder and hoarding disorder patient.
Interviewee: Well there’s two, two ways to think about that.
One is what disorder overlaps.
So, we had a hoarding case, someone who was in one of our treatment groups, one of our [INAUDIBLE]  treasure groups, and this was a woman whose home was filled with papers and a lot of trash, foods, cans, cans where the food was already eaten, and so forth.
So her home looked much like a hoarded home.
But it turns out, going to her home and talking with her about the things that were in her home, that the clutter in her home was collected because of an OCD problem and not a hoarding problem.
So she had a compulsive checking ritual where she had to read and study everything that came into the house that had any kind of writing or geometric design on it before she could throw it out.
And she abandoned that ritual, which meant that she stopped throwing things out.
So everything that came into her home that had writing or symbols or anything on it, she simply kept because that ritual’s too omorous for her to engage in, so she couldn’t let it go.
So that was a case, that without going to her home and examining the items in her home and talking with her about the items in her home, it would have been impossible to tell because she did have great difficulty throwing things away.
It would have been impossible to tell that this was OCD instead of hoarding disorder.
On the other hand, we’ve had people… and the other kind, I think that you referred to as the distinction between, that line, where do you cross the line between being sub-clinical and clinical, which is a little bit harder thing to focus on.
We have had cases, several of them, people who come in for help and go into our [INAUDIBLE]  program and they describe difficulty with discarding, they describe problems with excessive acquisition, but the level of clutter in their home is not something that impinges very seriously on their life.
And so those are the ones that I think are the hardest to distinguish because it, with respect to the diagnostic criteria, there needs to be enough clutter that it impinges on their life, and the inclinity to be in the living area of the home.
Some of these folks have clutter in their attics, basement, garage and so forth, not in areas central to their living environment.
And it’s not necessarily that someone else has control of the living area.
And so those are the cases that are a little tougher to diagnose properly.
Interviewer2: And how do you make the distinction for those individuals?
Interviewee: The distinction…yeah… the way I make the distinction is the level distress associated with the management of possessions.
By management I mean both the acquisition and the disposition – where it goes, how much care is required, and so forth.Interviewer1: [NAME]  do you want to take over with the next section?
Interviewer2: Yeah so, it kind of leads us into the next section of the interview, which is talking about the DSM 5 criteria for hoarding disorder.
We know that you had a hand in kind of crafting those criteria; and so are there particular elements of the criteria that you regard as difficult to apply, kind of similar to that distinction that we were talking about where the clutter invades certain areas of the home or certain living space.
So are there elements that you regard as difficult to apply or that you see different clinicians may apply differently?
Interviewee: Yeah…I think, I think that one is certainly one that’s a little difficult to apply because you got to make a judgement about interference and distress and if there’s no clutter or little clutter in the living areas of the home.
Does that rule a person out for the diagnosis, and I think that is a bit problematic.
I do, I do know, thinking more about that question, I do have one case in particular where there’s relatively little clutter but the scoop velocity about the disposition of possessions is so severe that the person is nearly incapacitated.
So that’s a difficult piece I think of the diagnostic criteria.
The other part that I think is a little bit misunderstood and you probably create some difficulty in making diagnosis, has to do with the specifier of acquisition, excessive acquisition.
Based on our research, we find that well over 90% of people have excessive acquisition, but it’s difficult sometimes to assess it because people often either have a hard time recognizing when they’re acquisition is excessive or they answer the question based on the fact that they have attempted to control and are somewhat successful controlling the acquisition by avoiding triggers to acquiring.
And the difficulty with that is that those triggers can be avoided very successfully over a long period of time.
So someone can gain some short-term control over the acquisition by avoidance but in the long-run it’s still a problem because they can’t keep up that avoidance for very long.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok. So now we want to ask you some specific questions about the way you think about the DSM 5 criteria, and we both know that you probably know them much better than we do, but we just want to read you a phrase from the criteria and then get to know a little more of your thought process as you apply it to patients.
So…
Interviewee: Yeah.Interviewer2: The first one we have is “Persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value” and we’re curious about you make the determination of value for individuals and their possessions and what makes the value judgement someone with hoarding disorders makes inappropriate?
Interviewee: Ok, yeah.
I, um, that phrase was inserted for a specific reason, and the reason had to do with the diagnostic criteria for obsessive compulsive personality disorder where the criteria there says that a person is unable, or has difficulty discarding possessions that are worthless or limited value, something like that.
And so the stereotype for one that that phrase was designed to get at was that hoarding involves the saving of worthless and worn out things.
And it’s clear in hoarding disorder, people with hoarding disorder save everything.
Now some of it may appear to other people to be worthless and worn out but that’s not always the case.
There are cases of people with hoarding whose homes are filled with brand new things, so it’s clear that it’s not just worthless and worn out things, so that’s the reason that phrase went in there.
So to say regardless of their actual value means that they save virtually anything.
And that’s the way I interpret the phrase.
The evaluation of possessions is an excessive evaluation of all possessions.
Interviewer2: Ok.
The next one we want to ask you about is…
Interviewer1: Can I just ask a quick follow up?
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Go ahead.
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer1: Just wondering in terms of evaluation of possessions, whether you think that there’s an important distinction to be made in the way that patients, different patients evaluate possessions.
Are we talking about an inability to accurately distinguish monetary value?
Are we talking about aesthetic value, so patients who find [INAUDIBLE]  so kind of describe patients who find aesthetic value in things that you wouldn’t normally find aesthetic value?
Or perhaps emotional value?
And how you, how this criteria is meant just in terms of which of those ideas of value is meant by this criteria or all of them?
Interviewee: All of them.
All of them.
I think it’s not more specific than it is because there’s such a wide range, and there’s some people who ascribe more aesthetic kinds of evaluation that are problematic.
Other people have more sentimental and so forth.
But my experience in hoarding cases is that for the most part, people with hoarding apply all those types of evaluations more excessively than other people do.
Interviewer1: So it’s less about looking at the specific object and saying, you know, this is an inappropriate evaluation and it’s more looking at them doing that with all objects?
Or with…
Interviewee: With all objects.
Interviewer1: …Oh well they say it’s [INAUDIBLE] .
It’s more saying all these objects that they have they value equally.
You know, you can’t value everything as valuable.
Interviewee: I’m not quite sure I follow what you said but I… what my experience is that they value all objects and have great difficulty distinguishing the importance of possessions.
So everything is compelling, which is a quote from one of my early clients.
Everything is compelling, so everything gets assigned kind of an equal level of importance and it’s all necessary to save.Interviewer1: Thank you.
Yeah, that was a great question.
Interviewer2: Ok.
So the next question that we wanted to talk with you about was the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, substantially compromising their intended use.
So we’re curious about how you make the determination of how much stuff is too much, especially with things like home size and other people in the home may affect the degree of clutter in the space.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Here, the distinction is really whether or not the person can carry out the normal activities of daily living in that space.
And that’s a clinical judgement about the extent to which the clutter prevents them from being able to do those things.
So it is a clinical judgement and what the way I look at it, is the extent to which you can actually do the things you need to do in the house.
So can you sit in a chair?
Can you sleep in your bed?
Can you eat a meal at a table?
Can you cook in the kitchen?
Can you open the door to you home to get out quickly if you need to?
Is there enough space for emergency personnel to get a gurney in if there’s a medical emergency?
Can you safely go up and down the stairs?
Those are, those are the kinds of questions that I use to make that determination.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And is this, those questions that you ask, does that take into account a patient’s intended use of the space.
For example, you know, if you don’t like to cook, how should you be using the kitchen?
What is the appropriate use?
Interviewee: Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
And so if you have a room that’s designed as an office and it’s absolutely full but you don’t use it.
You simply use it as a storage room, then that means the interpretations are a little bit different because that’s not a behavior that you’re planning to engage in or need to use.
So it’s basically turning a room that’s designed for one purpose into another, and that purpose is storage.
And having a storage room does not qualify as in this criteria.
Interviewer2: Ok.
We also want to ask, for healthy individuals, there’s a degree of variance in the free space that they like in their homes.
For example, some people might prefer to have a clear desk while others prefer to have things out and ready to use.
Do you feel like hoarding disorder could just be an extension of this variance that surpasses socially acceptable thresholds?
Interviewee: Absolutely.
And I’ve been hoping that someone would take up that question at some point.
I wish I had more time or I would.
What is a preferred living space?
Are there people who enjoy sort of cave-like spaces versus people who enjoy sort of open spaces and is that related to hoarding?
I suspect that it is.Interviewer1: That is really interesting.
It’s interesting partially because in a lot of our past interviews, people have kind of written that off or said that this is not at all related to hoarding.
So it’s interesting, and I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit more about how you see that in your patients or how, if you have examples of the way that people experience this differently.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think when you ask people especially about what, in what environment do they feel comfortable, you get a variety of responses.
Now many people with hoarding disorder will say they’re uncomfortable at home with the clutter but, yet, many people will say I just feel comfortable around my stuff.
And I had one client at one point tell me, uh, I came to her house and she said “I had such a tough week and I just want to come home and gather my treasures around me,” and so this sense of comfort and safety being surrounded by one’s possessions, I think, reflects a little bit of this tendency, potentially, this tendency to want to feel cave-like.
You see this in animals.
Some animals are cave-like – a dog, for instance, like to be in a kennel because they feel safe there.
You see this also sometimes in autism where there’s sort of these comfort devices where people get in, they’re sort of clamped into these devices.
Something similar to that I think may go on in hoarding disorder.
Again, now, that’s speculative, and what I would be interested in is somebody actually doing that research.
Interviewer1: Mmhmm.
Thank you.
Interviewer2: The last question that we wanted to ask related to the DSM 5 criteria was so the line goes “this difficulty is due to a perceived need to save items and distress associated with discarding them.”
Well how do you determine how much distress is normal or abnormal and how does that relate to potential insight issues when a patient denies having a problem and making that determination of distress?
Interviewee: Yeah.
The distress I think is related not so much to the distress someone would say when they have this disorder, but the distress if they are faced with the prospect of getting rid of something.
So that even though someone with respect to insight, someone may say “I don’t have a problem and I’m not distressed by all this stuff,” but they would experience significant distress if they tried to throw something out.
And so that’s the part of this question about insight and someone who denies that they have a problem.
Uh, so…remind me again of the first part of that question; I answered the second part.
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Just making the determination in how much distress is normal or abnormal.
Interviewee: Oh yeah, okay.
So that’s a clinical judgement, I think.
But it’s a judgement that’s hard to make without discussing with the person or maybe doing experiments trying to see how difficult it is to throw something away.
And so, again, it comes down to clinical judgement about how, um, how much distress warrants a diagnosis.Interviewer: Mmhmm. Ok, well, so I’m going to move into the next section of the interview that kind of – the question I want to ask [INAUDIBLE] .
So one of the things we’re interested in is the question of insight and how to help patients get insight, what do we mean by insight.
And so to kind of follow up on what you just said in terms of patients who may or may not realize the extent to which they are experiencing distress, I just wanted to start the conversation about insight by asking first how you would define insight in this context.
Interviewee: My view of insight, I think, is that if we want to say whether or not someone has insight, we should use the more classical definition of insight, anosognosia – the understanding that I have a disorder where something’s wrong.
And I think that applies to very few cases of hoarding.
And I think the fact it demonstrates that is that there are very, very few people with hoarding disorder who feel comfortable letting someone they don’t know very well into their home because they know how that person is going to react when seeing their home.
So they know that something’s wrong, they know there’s something that they are different somehow than other people and that difference will make them viewed in an unfavorable light by other people.
And that I think is evidence that there’s some degree of insight on their part.
And I think the confusion about insight is people confuse something here and what they confuse is this, that, they’re looking at an individual who has a piece of paper with something scribbled on it that is apparently meaningless and the inability of that person to let go of that piece of paper because it represents something to them.
That…many people interpret that as an absence of insight into the importance of that piece of paper when in fact that’s not an insight problem, that’s the disorder itself.
That, that attachment to the paper is the disorder, it’s not a problem with insight into the disorder.
And I think that’s…
Interviewer: That’s a really important distinction.
Interviewee: Yeah.
And I think that’s in large part in how people get confused when talking about insight because when you’re trying to work with someone and you see them keeping something that they obviously shouldn’t keep or they don’t need to keep, people think the person has no insight but really it’s not an insight problem, that’s the disorder itself.
Interviewer: So perhaps there’s a distinction to be made between knowing that the desire to keep the paper is not normal and not something that everybody would feel and knowing that the paper is not valuable?
And that clinicians think that because the patient values a piece of paper they don’t have insight…
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: But the patient actually is aware of the fact that that behavior represents itself as that novel behavior.
Interviewee: It represents something that…
Interviewer: …they do have insight.
Interviewee: Yeah.
[INAUDIBLE] .
And the [INAUDIBLE]  really has to do with people who don’t believe this is problematic in any way.Interviewer: Right, okay.
So that brings us to the next thing I wanted to ask you.
So as part of this interview we’re using the different kind of breakdown of the concept of insight that I think is from one of your papers.
So defensiveness as you already mentioned and anosognosia, overvalued ideation, indifference.
And we just kind of wanted to talk with you about your experience with people with this disorder and how… we’ve already talked about anosognosia and how that variation is very prevalent in the patients that you see and so when we talk about a problem of insight, do patients normally have, is it just overvalued ideation, to what is the extent of defensiveness or indifference?
And does the idea of indifference kind of… something that we heard from previous interviews is that when patients are indifferent, it can be difficult to distinguish hoarding disorder from disorders like depression where they’re simply indifferent to their surroundings or they don’t throw things away because they don’t care, and I wonder if you can talk through whether, kind of, insight.
Interviewee: Um I’m not quite sure I fully understood that.
Hardly I think that the difference, the insight related things related to defensiveness and coping, I think.
Um, when I see someone saying they don’t have a problem, most often it is when you work with agencies that have a lot of contact with people with hoarding problems – health departments, [INAUDIBLE]  agencies, so forth.
Their view of people with hoarding disorder typically is that most of them don’t have insight, but in part that’s because of who is asking the question and the purpose behind the question.
So part of the insight problem has to do with the context in which the interview occurs and what information is used to make the decision.
So if I go to someone’s home and they know I’m there because there’s some suspicion that there’s something wrong with them or the way they live, they are likely to be more defensive and deny a problem than if I’m talking to someone and asking them about what possessions they have that are valuable and the extent to which, the cost of having those possessions.
I’m not quite sure if that answers your question, but I think it speaks to this issue of insight and what it means because we treat insight as though it is a stable characteristic.
And I think in hoarding, it’s not necessarily stable and that it’s under the influence of the context in which the interaction is taking place between two people and that context has a lot to do with whether someone will deny they have a problem or admit that they have a problem.
And an example: I went on a heavy duty cleaning once with a crew in New York City with a case, a hoarding case, where the individual had been cleaned out five or six times before, so this is a repeat.
And so everyone involved knew this individual and believed that this individual had no insight into this.
So I spent the day there, and much of the day I spent talking with the individual as the cleaning was going on.
Most of the time he was quite distressed trying to control the workers and telling them what to throw away, what not to throw away.
And so for the whole day, he was [INAUDIBLE]  the fact that they were doing this, that this was horrible, they shouldn’t be doing this, they didn’t have the right to be doing this, but yet there was a period of time about ten minutes long during the day where, as we discussed this in a little more, I don’t know if I would call it objective, but a little dispassionate way he did admit.
He said to me that “yeah I know I keep too many things and I know this is a problem for my family and I try to control it in certain ways.”
He described those ways, his family tried to help him control it but they haven’t been able to.
And then a few minutes later he was back to arguing with the crew about not throwing things away.
So this was the case where, the one case where I saw very little insight for most of the day, but yet there was a period of time where this gentleman did have insight, and he was reflective and understood there’s something wrong.Interviewer: And kind of maybe to go along with that idea: when you meet a patient who is alleged to have very low insight, how do you help that patient try to gain insight or what do you say to them to help them to understand what’s going on with their behavior as being problematic?
Interviewee: Well largely I approach it using a motivational interviewing approach; and the idea there is to begin where the patient is.
So what I wanna do is, I wanna find out what kind of value the person puts on their thing.
So I want to know what they have collected, and I want them to tell me what these things mean to them, and I want to try to appreciate it in the same way they do.
So that what I’m doing is I’m trying to put myself in their shoes and see how this object can be valuable.
And, in that way, begin to help them figure out how to evaluate the value of possession.
One of the things that I have observed and it’s come out in a variety of ways and it just hits it out in some of the data that I’ve got is that when people with hoarding disorder acquire something, it goes into the home and then it is untouched after that.
There is little or no interaction with possessions once they come into the home.
And I think this is part of the key to understanding the disorder.
That for most of us, we process our possessions when they come into the home, we interact with them, and that interaction with our objects leads us to figure out how valuable they are.
But for people with hoarding disorder, they establish that value in the acquisition and once it comes into the home, the there’s no processing that goes on with that object so there is no reevaluation of its value.
And so what I want to do is I want to start asking them about this possession that’s in front of them and what it means to them.
And so I’m not trying to get them to throw this possession away, my purpose is in understanding the value of possessions and not them making a decision about whether to throw it away or not.
And so in that way, the motivation here is sort of down the road.
The real purpose here is to get them to start look at and evaluating the possession and then get to the point where we start talking about the benefits of having that possession and the costs of having that possession.
And that…apply the life context to that decision: so what does it mean to have this possession?
And what does this possession allow you to do?
And what does this possession prevent you from doing?
And in that way trying to establish the importance of change because what we want to focus on is the person’s values in life and what they value most.
And what we find when we’ve done that in treatment, it’s part of our treatment package, is they value things like everybody else does, family, friends, religion, so forth.
And yet the clutter that they have, the difficulty discarding, get in the way of achieving those values or goals.
And so this processing, part of the processing is to understand how this thing is valuable to them and how it relates to their life goals and their life’s values.
And so that’s the way I approach the motivation issue.Interviewer1: And one thing that we’ve heard from clinicians when we started doing these interviews is around the concept of insight is “well my patients already have insight when they seek treatment and so, you know, this isn’t something that I really go through with patients so much because, you know, they have to have some insight in order to get to my office.”
And so I’m wondering if you can talk about how this process can occur for patients who are kind of on their own, when they don’t have someone helping them through it.
How do patients come to this realization themselves sometimes or not?
Interviewee: You mean the realization that I have a problem?
Interviewer1: Mmhmm.
Yeah.
The realization that they have a disorder that might need treatment.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think largely it’s family and friends and criticism they receive and the depression they experience and the social isolation that comes along with the lifestyle.
Because if you got a home that you don’t invite anybody over to, you got a car that’s full of stuff so you’re embarrassed to have anybody ride, your life becomes narrow and a little bit isolated because you can’t reciprocate dinner parties, or visits to people’s homes, or going places with people, and so forth because you don’t invite them over to your house.
Interviewer1: Ok.
And that kind of arises just from interacting with people and recognizing the damage it does to your things that you value on your own?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer1: Um, I want to be very respectful of your time because we’re at an hour and that’s what we asked for.
We have more questions for you and I wonder if and [NAME]  you can jump in here if you don’t think that this is right.
I don’t know what the rest of your day looks like, and you probably have an appointment or not, and we can talk about the best way to proceed, but I think it would be very helpful for us to talk to again at some point as we kind of done more and more of these clinician interviews and to have you kind of talk through what we find and to hear your thoughts on kind of our evolving understanding of this as we move through the interviews.
So depending on what, you know, if you’re able to continue and answer the rest of the questions now or even kind of if you do have time, I think we would be really well suited for, if you’re open to it, talk to you again at some point and to kind of get your thoughts on our findings and to talk through some of these issues in greater detail later as we hear from more and more people.
[NAME] , what do you think about that?
Interviewer2: Well I think I’d first like to hear about your availability [NAME]  for, if we would have some more questions for you today, would you be able to…
Interviewee: Yeah.
Unfortunately, today I don’t have more time.
So I do have to go in a minute, but I would be happy to talk with you again sometime.
Interviewer2: Ok.Interviewer1: Ok. So we think the best thing to do is to send a follow-up time with you by email and, again, to finish the rest of the questions we have at that point and then maybe to ask you some additional questions that will arise as we kind of continue our interviews.
It that an okay way to proceed?
Interviewee: Yeah.
That will be fine with me.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Interviewer1: Ok.
Interviewer2: Um, excellent.
Interviewee: So you’ll be in touch…
Interviewer1: We really, really…
Interviewee: We’ll set up another time?
Interviewer1: Yeah we will.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
We’ll send an email as we get off the call.
We really appreciate your time and all of your work has been really great to read and this has been an extremely interesting conversation and I think that we both will look forward to continuing it when you have more time.
Interviewee: Alright.
I will too.
Interviewer2: Yeah, thank you very much.Interviewer1: Good morning, [NAME]?
Interviewee: Yes, [NAME]?
Interviewer1: Yeah, [NAME] is on the line too.
How are you?
Interviewer2: Hi.
Interviewee: Alright, good.
How are you?
Interviewer1: Doing good.
Doing really good.
Interviewer2: Good.
Interviewer1: Thank you for giving us a little more of your time today.
We really appreciate it.
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer1: So, kind of just to hop back into the interview, the next section that we had wanted… or the next few things that we had wanted to discuss with you were some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder have for their behavior.
So, we kind of wanted you to think through some of the questions from the Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale, and we have them here for you.
We kind of want you to think about, in your experience, how your patients, or how you think your patients would respond to some of these questions.
And um, just to kind of reiterate, the goal is to eventually do patient interviews and hopefully have them take a look at these questions as well, and kind of be able to compare the answers that we’re getting from clinicians and what patients are actually telling us.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer1: So, the first one that we had was… in the Brown Assessment of Beliefs it says, “What do you think has caused you to have these behaviors?
Do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?” So, how do you think your patients would reply or respond to that?
Interviewee: Uh.
Let’s see.
Certainly, I think it would vary from person to person.
I think one of the responses is that “I don’t have enough time.
I’m too busy, so I can’t get to doing the things I need to do to get rid of this stuff.”
Sorry, I’m out of breath, I just walked up the stairs.
In terms of biological cause, I think some patients answer that way, but probably the majority would not consider it a mental disorder.
So, let’s see.
I don’t think there will be one universal explanation on the part of patients.
So, I think they will vary along those lines.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Do you think that there are things that would make a patient more likely to believe in the biological origin versus not?
Interviewee: I think if they had recognized that in themselves and been trying to work on in and been unable to make progress, then I think they’re more likely to say it’s a biological cause, that “there’s something wrong with my brain.”
Interviewer1: Ok.
So, kind of to relate that back to something that we’ve been talking about earlier.
How does that kind of tie into the insight question that we’ve been talking about?
So, it seems like they need to have some insight in order to be doing the things to try and improve, that that’s kind of tied into their understanding of it as being biological.
Interviewee: I think so, yeah.
I think otherwise people may have tried to do something about it but sort of given up and convinced themselves that this is ok, that this is just the way I live, and it’s not a big deal.
So, I think, in part, that’s a function of some defensiveness and a part of people… I think we talked about this last time.
Interviewer1: Yeah.Interviewee: But, what happens when you are… when you have tried and failed at something?
You consider yourself a failure.
You can do some sort of mental protective activities, and one of them is to define the problem away.
And so, I can define this as just the way I live, and maybe the way I want to live.
And so, if that’s the case, they’re not likely to define it as a mental problem, and they’re not likely to talk about it having a biological cause.
It’s just the way they are.
But if they think of it as a mental problem, then what’s the easiest way of thinking about it?
Well, it’s not my character, it’s some sort of disease.
So, I think the explanation is kind of tied up with where they’re at with respect to insight.
Interviewer1: Yeah, that’s interesting.
And, do you… have you found or do you have any speculation as to which group would be easier to treat, of those two groups?
Interviewee: Well, I think the treatment starts in a different place.
If you understand the disease, I think you start a little farther along in the process.
If you are still struggling with recognition and, you know, are defensive about it, then I think you have to start in a different place, and get them to focus on what the impact this behavior has on my life.
And only after doing that for a while can you really see that, this is something I need to do something about.
Interviewer1: Ok.
And in… so it’s almost along a spectrum where considering it as a character trait may be kind of a little further behind the individual who’s thinking of it as a biological disorder.
Interviewee: Right, right.
Interviewer1: Do you feel like in the path to treatment every individual has to come to the point where they feel that it’s a biological disorder?
Can there be [INAUDIBLE] that they just need to [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: No, no, I think… Yeah, I think it can be looked at easily, the problem-solving exercise, that “here’s the problem I’ve got, I’ve got to solve it.”
And you don’t really need to go into why.
So, I think it helps people to think of it as biological in the sense that they don’t feel blamed by it, they don’t feel maybe as much shame, but I don’t know if that’s true for everyone but for a lot of people, I think.
And a lot of people come into treatment and want to know why, and of course we don’t have a very good answer to that.
And the biological one is an easy one to say because it’s sort of like a black box explanation, it doesn’t really say anything, you know?
Interviewer1: Yeah.Interviewee: Because, you know, everything is reductionistic.
You can say that anything you do is biological.
It’s got an associated activity in the brain that directs it, and so does that make it biological?
Interviewer1: Yeah.
I think that’s a good question, and that kind of ties into something else that we wanted to ask you about.
The explanation that individuals with hoarding disorder have, those reasons that justify their behaviors, do you feel that those explanations are just post hoc reasons to justify a pathological need?
Interviewee: Yeah possibly, possibly.
And, you know, thinking about a lot of this, you know, these post hoc explanations, I mean they could fit for any of it.
You know, we have this model where we talk about the nature of the attachments to possessions as being something that drives the disorder, but maybe they are post hoc explanations.
So, someone has the disorder, they engage in this behavior they have to look for an explanation for the behavior.
Maybe the behavior comes first and they create this explanation about being attached to the object.
So, if I want to keep this object I must be attached to it, it must have some significance.
And then they go through mental gyrations trying to figure out what the significance is and latch on to the, you know, sentiment, emotional attachment, responsibility, and so forth.
So, you know, I think the post hoc explanations do weigh in to a lot of these things.
Interviewer1: So, you would say that you feel that for a good portion of individuals there may be some kind of need that’s being explained by psychological things or personality or whatever?
Interviewee: I think so, I mean I think… I think that it’s hard for people who are engaging in a behavior that they feel some degree of shame about not to make attributions about one’s character, and it’s especially hard for family members of people with hoarding disorder not to make attributions about their character.
And so, I think that plays into the disorder and how much shame and how much depression is generated by it.
Interviewer1: Interesting, ok.
Ok, another, kind of tie in to that is do you think that… or how much do you think that cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions, how much do you think that that plays a role in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: That’s a good question.
I think it does but only a small amount.
We’ve done a little bit of research, we have and published it, looking at materialism and hoarding, and they were correlated, measures of materialism were correlated with hoarding, but the correlations weren’t substantial.
They were significant, but they weren’t substantial.
Interviewer2: And what do you think the relationship is between hoarding disorder and compulsive or addictive shopping, or a disorder where it focuses more on acquisition or acquisitions of specific items?
Interviewee: Oh, I think they’re closely related.
I think acquisition, excessive acquisition is a nearly universal aspect of hoarding.
From the data that we have, 90 to 95% of people with hoarding disorder acquire excessively or have trouble controlling their acquisitions.
And so, you talked about compulsive shopping or compulsive acquiring, there may be folks who compulsively acquire who don’t hoard, and there are a few people who have hoarding disorder but don’t acquire excessively, although relatively few, I think.
I think there’s a substantial overlap there.Interviewer1: Mhm. Another question on the BABS that we kind of wanted you to think through how your patients might respond is, “How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that something bad will come of discarding them?”
Interviewee: I think that’s… if it’s worded correctly, I think patients will say that they are convinced.
And a large number of objects collected and saved by people with hoarding disorder, they want to save because of this personal, emotional connection.
There are a lot of people with hoarding disorder, and these things aren’t mutually exclusive, but a lot of people with hoarding disorder keep things they don’t want, and they do that because they can’t get rid of them appropriately.
They have to find a good home for it, they have to make sure it’s not wasted, they have to make sure it’s not harmed, and those things require so much effort that they simply don’t have time to process all the stuff they have to get rid of things.
And so, they would say they need to save these things, but not because the necessarily want them but because they have to make sure they’re not wasted in some way.
So, I think that’s a subtle part of this that… it depends on how that question gets interpreted by the person being asked.
Interviewer1: Well, something that we’re kind of trying to do… these questions have been kind of challenging, more challenging for us to develop because the Brown Assessment of Beliefs is much more geared towards Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: Right, right.
We struggled with that for a number of years trying to figure out a way of asking questions that would elicit insight, and it’s not easy.
Interviewer2: And so, I think that’s part of the project that we’re also interested in.
I guess, what did you come to with that?
How do get an insight through these kinds of measures?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Well, the other complication for this, with respect to that question, is if you’re asking people about their reasons for saving things, is that a question of insight or is that the disorder itself?
And I think that’s an important question because the disorder involves these reasons for saving and their beliefs about these reasons for saving, so if they have strong beliefs about saving something for sentimental reasons, is that a question of insight or is that a question of the severity of the disorder?
Interviewer2: Yeah.
So how have you, kind of, come to deal with this problem?
Interviewee: Well, if you want to talk about insight, I think for hoarding you want to go back to its original definition.
You want to talk about the belief about whether a disorder exists, a belief about whether this is interfering with my ability to live.
That’s probably the place to go with defining insight and hoarding, because otherwise you get all mixed up with this process, and if you define the belief about possessions and the strength of those beliefs as insight, then what’s the disorder?
Interviewer2: Mhm.
And have you developed, kind of, good questions for asking people with this disorder that you feel reliably and consistently get at this?
Because I know last time we had talked about how insight can be kind of a shifting target.
[INAUDIBLE]Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, we haven’t, but [NAME] and [NAME] and I spent a couple years trying to develop these, and we came up with a whole series of questions and just were never satisfied that they captured what we intended with insight.
And I think at the time we weren’t quite sure how to define it, in fact we have a paper on that talking about the notion of insight in hoarding.
It’s just a real tricky thing to try to figure out.
So, good luck.
Interviewer2: Yeah, we’ve kind of used your paper as a starting point for a lot of our own thinking about it.
It’s interesting to hear you talk about it.
Interviewee: Yeah, it’s really, I think it’s a really hard problem to solve.
Interviewer2: But, you know, I guess to kind of think through the problem a step further, it seems like it would be a very important problem to address because of the problems getting people into treatment and into research and sticking to treatment.
So, is your sense, and this is not on our interview script but just as a question, along those lines that insight is the biggest, kind of, block to getting people into treatment, that people, once they’re aware that they have a problem they have an easier time with things?
Or is that not the case?
Interviewee: I don’t know.
You know, whenever we’ve put out a call for research we get flooded with people with hoarding problems, so I’m not sure that insight is the impediment.
I think shame may be more than insight.
I think the majority of people know there’s something wrong.
They don’t know how to explain it.
They don’t know what it is, and maybe they don’t want to call it hoarding, because that’s… you know, there are lots of negative connotation with that term.
So, I don’t know that insight is the biggest impediment to getting people into treatment.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And so, the biggest impediment would then be getting people to admit they have a problem… I don’t know.
Where would you locate the problem if it’s not [INAUDIBLE]?
Interviewee: I think it’s more what is available to help people.
I mean, there are relatively few therapists who know how to treat this or advertise themselves knowing how to treat it, very few centers which do so, and so where people turn?
Where does an [INAUDIBLE] turn when they have a hoarding problem?
By in large, it’s not the mental health system, they go to case management systems, they go to, you know, places like Steri-Clean and things of that sort because those are the only options they know of.
Those are the only places that have any advertising.
So, I think part of the problem is there just aren’t resources available, and the other part, I think, is shame.
It’s like going to the dentist, nobody, you know, people avoid going to the dentist just because it’s… you know, they don’t like it.
Interviewer2: Well the next kind of couple of questions that we have go along with that really nicely.
We were just wondering if you could talk us through, from your experience, the typical process that occurs in order to get patients into your office for treatment or for study participation.Interviewee: Well, I think for the most part, what happens is that people go through long periods of time where they are criticized by family members, pressured by family members, and then maybe the authorities get involved and so they… One of the ways that people get in around here is when we run, we have a community forum on collecting and clutter and we make announcements about a very intensive workshop.
It’s not therapy, it’s kind of a workshop, it’s kind of half a support group and half a self-help group, and that’s when people start getting more involved because it doesn’t feel like they’re getting into therapy, but then eventually that leads them to pursue more.
Interviewer2: And how long would you say that this behavior has been going on, typically, before they get to that point?
Interviewee: Usually decades.
Interviewer2: And so, to kind of build off that, do you have any sense of hoarding over kind of a lifespan or is it something that has been going on for the person’s whole life?
Did it start when they were a child or young adult or develop later in life?
Interviewee: Well, the research we’ve done on it suggests it starts fairly early, about somewhere in between 10 and 20 years old, and although it’s not serious then, the behaviors begin then.
And they start getting serious a couple of decades later.
And that once they move along that trajectory, that lifespan, they get more and more serious, and there are relatively few cases for whom that process reverses, relatively few cases who, on their own, get better.
Interviewer2: And is your sense, again, [INAUDIBLE].
Is it your sense that it’s a progressive disorder in the sense that the behaviors worsen or is it a progressive disorder in the sense that they accumulate more and more stuff and so it appears to be worse over time because they have more later?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s a good question.
I don’t know the answer to that.
Clearly, those things are confounded.
As time goes by they get more and more stuff.
Does the saving behavior get more extreme or more rigid?
That I don’t know.
I think… I have seen cases where the acquisition slows down, and so it’s an attempt by the person to stop, an attempt by the person to try to do something about it, but they do it by controlling the acquisition and not increasing the discarding.
I guess I don’t really have a good sense of what an answer to that question might be.
Interviewer2: And in terms of family and friends kind of playing a role in arriving at, you know, the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, do you have a sense of which family and friends are most often involved and how that goes?
Interviewee: Usually it’s adult children of the individual, and sometimes it’s a sibling, sometimes it’s a spouse, but the majority of the cases I’ve seen where the family gets involved it’s the adult children of an elderly person who’s been doing it for many years and now may have had some kind of health setback and is going to have more trouble living in an environment that is heavily cluttered.
Interviewer2: And do you feel that employees of institutions or states are frequently or infrequently involved with these cases or is it pretty rare, is it common?
Landlords, police officers, you know, homeowner’s associations, those kinds of people.Interviewee: Oh yeah, homeowner’s associations certainly are, health departments, elder service agencies, child and family services, animal control, they all have stories, and they all have cases.
I think health departments have a lot of them.
Elder services agencies have lots of them.
I doubt there’s an elder service agency across the country that hasn’t had multiple cases, hoarding cases, that they deemed some of their most difficult to deal with.
Interviewer1: I kind of wanted to hop in and ask you a question or two about something that you mentioned earlier.
So, when you were describing the Buried in Treasures and really, kind of, marketed as a workshop as opposed to treatment versus therapy, is that because of the ideas about shame that you’d mentioned earlier?
And, [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: In part.
Yeah, in part it is, but also because when we started, the reason we started these workshops was because there were very few therapists who know how to treat it, and this workshop was designed to be run by anyone.
And so, the first set of workshops was run by my students, and these were not graduate students, these were undergraduate students, and then we moved from there to having them run by a peer, that is someone with lived experience hoarding.
So, that was the idea behind these workshops, to make them affordable and increase accessibility to some kind of intervention.
Interviewer1: Ok.
Ok, and I also wanted to… I’m not even really positive how to phrase this question, but something throughout the interviews and through our conversation with you that I feel like is continually resurfacing that I think is very interesting about this disorder is how external it is in the sense that a lot of it comes down to individuals who are interacting with this person in terms of making them aware of the disorder, in terms of helping them to get into treatment.
Do you feel like that’s something that’s unique to hoarding disorder or more salient here than in other psychiatric disorders?
Interviewee: Well I think it might be more salient for people who are close to the individual because other disorders – anxiety, depression, and so forth – a lot of the behaviors can be hidden, a lot of the experiences can be hidden, but in hoarding disorder, for anyone who is in that person’s living environment, it can’t be hidden, and so I think that’s one of the reasons why.
And definitely because this has an impact on everyone around the person, so other people living in the home, if the person lived in an apartment other people living in the apartment building, or in the condo, or even in the community, gets affected by this.
And so, this is more than a mental health problem, this is a societal problem, because it has implications for lots of different parts of society.
And that’s why, you know, in this disorder we have the health department involved, we have elder service agencies involved, child and family services, the fire department, animal control, all these agencies that have responsibilities to their community have a stake in hoarding, and that’s not the case with other mental health disorders.
So, I think that’s why it looks that way.Interviewer2: Well, [NAME], do you want to ask our final question and we can talk about the rest of the story?
Interviewer1: Yeah, so this is the last thing that we kind of like to close with in all our interviews what do you think are the biggest things that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Wow.
There’s a lot.
There’s a lot we don’t know.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewee: And so, I don’t know what would be the biggest thing.
I think… I think how to change… something I’m still going with now is how to change certain kinds of beliefs.
I think beliefs about possessions related to sentimental attachment and so forth, those we can change.
The acquisition we can do pretty well at, but the belief that seems to me to be the most intransigent, the most difficult to treat, is this fear of wasting something.
It rises to the level of almost scrupulosity much like what the scrupulosity we see in OCD, in fact we have a paper out now where we’ve developed a measure of what we call material scrupulosity, and it sort of combines this intense perfectionism with this fear of waste and turns it into a moral problem.
So, I’m only a moral person if I don’t waste anything.
The trouble is that, you know, as a culture we’ve come to be very wasteful, so this belief in some ways is really a pro social belief, but it’s a pro social belief that’s taken to such an extreme that it destroys the person’s life.
And being able to change that is really hard.
The cases I’ve seen where that’s really powerful, there’s been almost no change in their orientation towards possession.
And I think that’s… I guess for me… It’s a small piece of it because it’s a big pie, but that’s the one that seems to me the real, the most difficult attachment to break with possessions.
Interviewer1: I think that that’s really interesting, especially that you described it as pro social, because that immediately got me thinking about egosyntonic and egodystonic behaviors.
We’re almost extending that, or you’re extending that to if its socially syntonic or socially dystonic and to what degree it is.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer1: And if it’s socially syntonic its harder to grapple with.Interviewee: Yeah. Well, the other thing that’s important there related to that, not so much that it’s difficult, but... is the fact that the other pieces of this puzzle point to the possibility that what we’re looking at here is a form of giftedness.
And that giftedness has to do with, number one, the ability to see the beauty in the physical world and appreciate the beauty in the physical world.
Lots of collecting behaviors are associated with aesthetically pleasing objects and not wanting to waste that aesthetic in that object.
And so, one of the most frequent things people collect are things that are designed for some kind of arts and crafts project.
And the difficulty is people see the potential for the aesthetic value of an object and they collect it with the intention of producing something, some kind of work of art or craft of some kind.
But they don’t have the organizational skills to really get that done, and so in some ways it’s an aesthetic gone awry.
And the other piece of the giftedness is this ability to make associations with objects.
So, if I see a bottle cap without a bottle my only association is trash and how do I get rid of it, but people with hoarding problems will see the shape and the color and the texture and think about things they could do to bring out those colors and make that even more aesthetically pleasing.
So, it’s almost as though… one of the people in our book Stuff described his brain as a tree with too many branches that every thought leads somewhere and leads him down a different path and there are so many branches that he gets lost.
And so, it’s a combination of maybe an intense form of intelligence together with sort of an aesthetic giftedness that can’t be controlled.
It can’t be corralled somehow to make it workable.
Interviewer2: Wow.
Interviewee: I’m not sure that that answered your question, but [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer1: No, I think it was definitely one of the more interesting concepts that you mentioned in your book, Stuff.
Both [NAME] and I have read it and I think for me that was one of the most interesting things about it, because in the literature it’s not really discussed, the positive aspects of this behavior or this illness.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
I think here is a place to begin talking about this that would encourage people with this problem to come forward, because one of the things they describe is this feeling of being disrespected.
And I think that has a lot to do with not coming forward to try to work on this problem or admit this problem.
But if we respect them for what they are good at, then they are likely to be able to come forward a little more readily to say, “Well, what are the downsides of this?” And so, I think that may be a place, that may be a hook to get at this issue of why people may be reluctant to come in for treatment, especially before they get to be 50 or 60 years old, which is when we, most of the time, see people coming in after decades of doing this.Interviewer2: Another thing to kind of follow off that that I was struck by in your book, and to go off that idea of giftedness, I got the sense that, in addition to being overly aesthetic, they were also overly empathetic.
That was also kind of a trait that was common, that they empathize too much with things that maybe you shouldn’t necessarily empathize with, but they felt that objects really had more, kind of, feeling and felt for them.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
And I’ve been working on a couple of projects now with a couple of individuals looking more deeply at their experience.
And they’re very different.
One is sort of material scrupulosity and the other has a sentimental kind of attachment.
But they each talk about believing that they are an empath, and, you know, empaths, I guess in the Star Trek sets, but empaths for objects, and for people as well, but it’s quite interesting and no one has really looked into that.
Interviewer2: Do you find that that empathy extends to people, for people who have this trait, that they are also overly empathetic to people, or is it really objects?
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t know.
For these two, they’re insistence is that it generates to people.
I don’t know, I don’t know that I’ve seen that that often, but according to them it does.
Interviewer2: Well, we kind of wanted to close out our talk today by kind of stepping back from the interview.
Those were all the interview questions that we had.
And [NAME] feel free to jump in.
And we were kind of thinking forward through the next stages of our project and we wanted to talk about the project a little bit.
[INAUDIBLE] your input into it and kind of see if you would be willing to help us moving forward just to think through some of these issues when start to do our interviews with hoarders.
I don’t know, [NAME] do you want to jump in?
Interviewer1: Yeah.
I guess so the next stage for us after we were planning on going back and looking through our clinician interviews and maybe reframing and refocusing some of our interview questions in order to get at pieces that haven’t reached thematic saturation yet and see if there are more opinions that we can gather.
And, kind of moving forward to develop our patient interview, I guess we were thinking that, if you would be so inclined, that perhaps we could get in touch with you again at that point down the road since you have already spent a considerable amount of time thinking on these things especially when it comes to the insight piece and just kind of having you look through or take a look at our patient interview to see if, based on from your experience, we’d be able to get at the things we were trying to get at with this population.
Interviewee: Sure, I’d be happy to do that.Interviewer2: So, the idea we have right now is to both try to understand the degree to which people with this problem come into the treatment setting with a different conception of what’s wrong with them and how to improve it and their providers as a way of getting at improving treatment and also improving people’s receptivity to treatment.
But also, we were kind of interested in the disorder more broadly, and we are a little bit concerned at this point, I think, that we are going to have really, really long interviews.
Our interviews with providers are already quite long, but I think that [NAME]’s experience with patients suggests that we’re going to be talking to people for probably a really, really long time.
So, we’re trying to think of how to do a good interview with this population.
I don’t know that there is anybody who has more experience with that than you do.
Interviewee: Yeah, well I’ll tell you that the interview process is probably going to be very long.
When we did our big psychology study we had over 200 people with hoarding disorder, almost 100 people with OCD, and then a number of community controls.
And we did an ADIS, an anxiety disorders interview schedule with a lifetime version, and it took about an hour to an hour and a half with people with OCD.
It took about 4 hours for people with hoarding, and I think you’ll see that as you go through.
Part of it reflects something about the disorder.
This tendency to provide details in a circuitous way so that the nature of the thinking, it kind of winds around.
It’s a story, it’s like what we talked about earlier, it’s a story with too many details, and there are so many details that they get lost in it so they can’t quite pull together the big picture.
Trying to summarize it all is difficult, so a lot of the details are provided.
So that’s, I think that’s what you’re going to run into in these interviews is lots and lots of details, but from their perspective, a difficulty pulling those details together to form a conclusion.
Interviewer1: So, is that… that’s what we were talking about, value.
Valuing everything.
Everything is compelling, every detail of the conversation and the story is compelling as well.
I hadn’t thought of it that way.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
And not being able to distinguish what’s truly an important detail from what’s an unimportant detail.
Interviewer2: Yeah.
And really, I don’t know if you remember form our first interview, we had this listing task which is, you know, supposed to generate a nice, neat list and see what is important to people based on what they say first, second, and third.
I’m really interested to see how people with this disorder do with that task.
I don’t know if it’s going to even happen, but it’ll be interesting to see how it varies.Interviewee: Yeah, yeah that’ll be interesting.
I’m probably going to be doing a simple study pf my telephone messages, and maybe generating a group of people to call my phone and leave a message, because I know that what happens is people with hoarding disorder will take more time to express an idea, because it’s so filled with detail and irrelevant detail compared to other people.
And that I think speaks partly to the information processing problem that these folks have, and maybe speaks to the way in which the brain is wired, it’s this ‘too many branches’ idea.
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Ok, well I really appreciate your time, and [NAME] do you have anything else before we wrap up?
Interviewer1: Yeah, no. I don’t think I have anything else.
We would just… yeah, like you mentioned, we really appreciated the opportunity to get back in touch with you at some point in the future as we move forward in the process of developing and maybe piloting that patient interview.
Interviewee: Sure, I’ll be happy to do that.
I’m pretty much flat out until June, so I wouldn’t be able to do anything before June.
Just keep that in mind, I don’t know how quickly you’re moving.
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewee: Ok, well good luck!
Interviewer1: Thank you.
Interviewer2: Thank you, so much.
Interviewee: I’ll talk to you later.
Interviewer1: Bye.
Interviewer2: Take care, bye.