P1: Hey how are you?
P3: I’m good how are you?
<<<<<<< HEAD
P1: Doing good, how’s the conference been going?
P3: Ugh, I’m just ready to be done LAUGHING.
P1:LAUGHING
P3: Uh you want to do the nineteenth at twelve thirty for doctor NAME?
P1: Yeah even to twelve thirty.
P3: I’ll put it on the calendar, do you want me to reply to her, NAME ?
P1: Um I think I did, did I CC you on that?
=======
Interviewer1: Doing good, how’s the conference been going?
P3: Ugh, I’m just ready to be doneING.
Interviewer1:
P3: Uh you want to do the nineteenth at twelve thirty for doctor [NAME]?
Interviewer1: Yeah even to twelve thirty.
P3: I’ll put it on the calendar, do you want me to reply to her, [NAME] ?
Interviewer1: Um I think I did, did I CC you on that?
>>>>>>> 1558733b9f854ba59d98de1e30d8eb8f82c5feda
P3: Yeah, I just missed it, hm yeah I just missed it.
P1: Let me double check.
Interviewee: I see it.
P1: Yeah okay, alright so were going to alternate questions after you do the free listing prompt and intro?
P3: Mhm
P1: Do you want to do the most important features one or do you want to start alternating at that point?
P3: Uh yeah, I think i'll do, I’ll just intro the subject the study and the free listing, and then I’ll say can you just give us some background and then after that you can take it away.
P1: Okay
P3: Okay
P1: Yeah that sounds like a plan.
Okay I will go ahead and give her a buzz and get this started.
P3: [INAUDIBLE]  I didn’t tell you this yesterday but like, probably isn’t the right word but I was I was very clear [INAUDIBLE] , and I was like I really like working with [NAME]  he’s like he’s got it straight in order [INAUDIBLE] .
We didn’t talk about this he did it exactly right I think it worked way better with the little summary at the end.
<<<<<<< HEAD
P1: Yeah I literally I’d pull up the notes that um I’d taken from the day that we talked about it I was like shit I gotta make sure I did this right.
P3: Yeah no, you did a great job and um I like I just had like a moment of pleasure of working with you and being like: he took notes and that’s what he’s doing, and did it exactly right so LAUGHING thank you for doing that.
=======
Interviewer1: Yeah I literally I’d pull up the notes that um I’d taken from the day that we talked about it I was like shit I gotta make sure I did this right.
P3: Yeah no, you did a great job and um I like I just had like a moment of pleasure of working with you and being like: he took notes and that’s what he’s doing, and did it exactly right soING thank you for doing that.
>>>>>>> 1558733b9f854ba59d98de1e30d8eb8f82c5feda
I I realize that we hadn’t like talked about it before going into the interview I think it went off great went on great.
P1: Yeah yeah I think it did-
P3: Anyway
P1: INAUDIBLE  definitely helped definitely so hopefully this one will be even better.
I’ll go ahead and give her a call, okay?
P3: Uhuh
<<<<<<< HEAD
P1: Also just so you know all of this is recorded so I now have record of you complimenting me.
P3: LAUGHING oh good, LAUGHING how awkward.
P1: Alright, I think we’re all on the line together now.
=======
Interviewer1: Also just so you know all of this is recorded so I now have record of you complimenting me.
P3:ING oh good,ING how awkward.
Interviewer1: Alright, I think we’re all on the line together now.
>>>>>>> 1558733b9f854ba59d98de1e30d8eb8f82c5feda
P3: Okay hi.
Interviewee: Hi
P3: Its nice to meet you, I’m [NAME], I’m a colleague of [NAME].
Interviewee: Okay.
P3: How are you?
Interviewee: Good, how are you [NAME]?
P3: I’m doing well.
Um I I guess I’ll just start by introducing a little bit about the project that we’re doing-
Interviewee: Okay.
P3: And then we a have a its like a informed consent script for you to listen to-
Interviewee: uhuh
P3: And decide if you’d like to participate and then we'll get started with the interview okay?
Interviewee: Okay
P3: And if at any point um you can’t hear me or understand what I’m saying, because I’m in a kinda weird location, um I’m at a conference right now, so if you can't hear me just let me know um-
Interviewee: Okay
P3: So just to give you the background information [NAME] and I are kind of trying to understand um how patients and clinicians understand hoarding disorder, and how understanding hoarding might differ between clinicians and patients.
So right now were kinda we kinda split into two phases, and the phase that were working on right now is the clinician’s perspectives so that’s why were um interviewing you, we will eventually want to compare these interviews with um interview that we do with patients.
And so some of the questions that we ask may be a little odd, but the idea is to compare what clinicians will say in response to these questions to what patients will say.
So that’s the intent of of our project, um we’re also kind of interested in how knowledge about hoarding disorder is spreading between researchers and clinicians who have different um different amount of ya know experience and and knowledge of um hoarding, so that’s another thing that were interested in.
So that’s kind of a background for our project and our intention.
Um if you have any questions through the project uh we can happy to answer them otherwise I can go ahead and read you the informed consent uh
Interviewee: Okay.P3: It there anything you’d like to know before we get started?
Interviewee: Uh not at this point.
P3: Okay so um our informed consent: your volunteering to participate in our research project conducted by [NAME]  from UNIVERSITY .
The aim of this study is to better understand the ways that researchers and clinicians think about hoarding disorder.
You’ll be one of approximately thirty people being interviewed for this research, your participation in this project is voluntary, you will not be paid for your participation.
You may withdraw and discontinue participation at any time without prenatally, if you decline to participate or withdraw from the study no one will be told.
Most interviewees will find the discussion interesting and thought provoking, if however, you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview you have the right to decline to answer any question or to end the interview.
Um so participation in this study involves being interviewed by researchers from UNIVERSITY , the interview will last approximately sixty minutes and we’ll take notes during the interview, um we also plan to make an audio tape of the interview and um the subsequent dialog will be transcribed.
Um if you don’t want to be taped you will not be able to participate in the study.
Um the researchers will not identify you by name in any of the reports using any of the information that came from this interview and your confidentially as a participant and in the study will remain secure.
Subsequent uses of our records and data will be subject to the standard data use policies, which protect the anonymity of individual or institutions faculty and administrators from my campus will be neither present at your interview nor have access to log notes or transcripts, um this precaution will prevent you individual comments from having any negative reproductions’.
This research study has been approved by the institutional review board at UNIVERSITY  and I am happy to send you um any contact information the IRB and for the PI at the end of this interview.
Um do you have any questions for me about any of that?
Interviewee: Hm nope.
P3: Okay that’s fine, so um now we're done with the listing component of the interview, I appreciate you doing that.
Interviewee: Mhm.P3: Um and I just wanna get started on our kind of more reform interview by having you um just give a little bit of info about your background related to hoarding disorder, um and how you’ve become involved.
Interviewee: Mhm okay.
So I um my PhD was in PTSD, and so when I was looking for jobs I saw the [INAUDIBLE]  post at [INAUDIBLE]  at the time hiring postdoc to do article to be involved in clinical trials she was working on, so then I applied and then I got in, so I went and worked in that context for three uh three years and and three months I think three years and four months something like that yeah.
So I my involvement in the in the um in the clinical trial was to for people with hoarding problems, yeah and so that finished um in 2014 so that’s when it started and it finished in 2017.
And so in the course of that course of three years and something months, I uh ran maybe uh fifteen sixteen groups [INAUDIBLE]  groups and this intent more than a hundred people with hoarding problems homes.
Yeah so that was my experience and after that um now I’m in the process of getting my license in California on working with this type of system, and continuing to see people with hoarding problems but also something else.
Yeah that's it.
P1: Mkay um so for the rest of the interview uh NAME  and I are going to kinda be alternating off with asking you some different questions, and the one that we wanted to start off with is, uh what are the most important features of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Hm um this is different from any of the previous answers of previous questions or or?
P1: Yeah, yeah I guess what were kind of trying to get at with this one is what are the differences that are really important and differentiating between normal saving behavior and pathological hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Ah okay hm, so I think one of these would be um would be the the psychological reasons for not getting rid of things or for keeping things so for for example for collecting behaviors, the underlying mechanism would be would be would be very different from hoarding and um so and with hording the collection is more um to deal with um sentimental reasons and more emotional and more fear based, and and it creates a lot of shame, but compare with um um um collecting behaviors, like healthy collecting behaviors, is more more uh got a lot of pride it's not as much shame and um and also with hoarding um its yeah, it's more the psychological reasons of not getting rid of things more that the physical capacity or practical concerns.P1: Okay um can you tell us you know what kind of people are are more likely to be hoarders is it older or younger individuals, people of a certain race, or socioeconomic status, people living in rural or urban settings?
Interviewee: Hm um the the rate of hoarding disorder increase as the age increases and um its al lot more common, it’s a lot more prevalent with people who are fifty-five years older or sixty years uh older than sixty or fifty-five years old, and um yeah so in that age range is more its like six or seven percent, but in general then it's more like two two percent so among the older folks its more common and um a lot of these folks are more um, they have lower income, um but it doesn’t mean that rich people don’t have hoarding problems, and um a lot of these folks are also uh not able to keep their jobs yeah.
In terms of whether its more urban or rural this one I’m not quite sure.
P1: Mkay and were there any other things outside of those that you think a certain type of person would be more likely to be a hoarder?
Interviewee: My observation is that a lot of people with hoarding problems the are quiet creative, they are kinda like they are kind of artistic, and they can see fine details that that other people don’t see.
P1: Okay.
Interviewee: Yeah INAUDIBLE  answer to this question.
P1: Okay no um definitely definitely, now can you think of any specific cases that have been challenging to diagnose, either clinically or for research purposes, because it was on the border between pathological and nonpathological, and how you made that distinction?
Interviewee: Yeah there was a recent case, that uh um the reason why she it was hard to diagnose for her was um she um um her clutter was based on based on her description, that based on her reasoning was to to lack of money to afford storage unit, and recently she had a lot of loss uh family member died in the past five or six years and she had a lot of um PTSD symptoms and depression, and so and the timing of the of the clutter starting kind of um was around the time when all of that was happening when all the very obvious PTSD and major depression symptoms were starting and also, she had to spend all her saving flying to different parts of the country to funerals, so she couldn’t afford storage unit anymore and she had to move things to her very small studio, and so she so it uh it was hard to tell whether the clutter was was um because of these financial and other diagnoses or was because of hoarding, yeah.
P1: Okay okay.P3: Okay so um should I do the next question NAME ?
P1: Yeah so now we're just talking about yeah DSM five yeah mhm.
P3: Yeah so were just going to ask some questions about the DSM five criteria.
Um so we can better understand the way that clinicians understand these criteria um, and how they pertain to diagnoses.
Um so have you ever had to apply the DSM five criteria with the intent of diagnosing an individual according to disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah um
P3: Are there things about those criteria that you sometimes find challenging or particular elements of the criteria that you think are particularly difficult to apply or that you think different clinicians might apply slightly differently?
Interviewee: Hm I believe so yeah um-
P3: Anything that comes to mind?
Interviewee: Hm I think that um, I think uh the the the difficulties or emotional difficulties of letting go of stuff um this one can be tricky sometimes, especially uh when you interact with people who are um less aware of their their difficulties, they may say ‘oh I don’t have difficulties I can get rid of them I just don’t have time’ yeah so this one can be-
P3: Okay, so that might be mhm do you feel like clinical judgment plays role in diagnosis of hoarding disorder and how would you compare that in your experience to the role of clinical judgment in other psychiatric disorders?
Interviewee: Uh can you say this again?
I’m not quite sure, I don’t understand the question.
P3: Yeah so this is just kind of wondering to what extent you think an individual clinician kind of clinical judgment about what constitutes hoarding disorder plays a role in in diagnoses, and what do you think that that’s that’s special with hoarding disorder, or whether it pertains to um all psychiatric disorders equally?
Interviewee: Hm I would imagine it would be similar um yeah, I I I don’t think that that um clinicians would have more or less personal influence on how they they diagnose hoarding that other diagnoses but of course I think um each individual um clinicians may have their own bias that may lead them to um diagnose someone with ‘A’ diagnoses more than ‘B’ diagnoses.
But I think overall across all clinicians I don’t think that hoarding disorder may be more or less bias then other diagnoses.
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: uh, well not now, that I say it I think that um I guess because because hoarding is still very new so, not a lot of people, not a lot of clinicians are sensitive as sensitive about hoarding then are other diagnose such as hm major depression, so they may not have the clinical sensitivity to think of ‘oh I wonder if I should go through this with this person?’.
P3: Mhm mhm.
Interviewee: Yeah, so it can be under diagnosed yeah.
P3: Mhm, okay um want to take the next one NAME ?
P1: Yeah, so uh now we want ask you some questions about how you think about specific DSM five criteria, so I’m gonna read you a phrase and I want to know a little bit more about your thought process when applying it to an individual patient.
Interviewee: Mhm.
P1: So one of the phrases in the DSM is the ‘persistent difficulty discarding and/or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value’ so-
Interviewee: Mhm
P1: How is it that you’re determining value and what makes the value judgment that someone with hoarding disorder makes inappropriate?
Interviewee: Mhm hm yeah so I try to interpret um this criteria as the value that most people, or people who don’t have sentimental values with this item would consider the value of this thing for example like a receipt or plastic shopping bags or or yeah, or containers of food that they have consumed, so these would be um I think what the criteria mean by um regardless of the values, meaning that its not valuable.P1: Okay so it is something that you think is based on the the values that are culture escribed to different things?
Interviewee: Yeah.
P3: Okay um, I just want to ask you about another one of um one of the criteria, so this criteria reads ‘the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromise their intended use’ so the question I’d like to ask is how do you judge um clutter and how much stuff counts as clutter?
Interviewee: Mhm yeah yeah so this is also this is also a tricky one.
So I have seen people who have um who don’t have a lot of a lot of clutter, but they still have other emotional attachment that is very typical for people with hoarding problems and um so it seems that clutter seems to me that is more like the severity of the disease so kind of like when someone has died [INAUDIBLE]  they already [INAUDIBLE]  different but an and if someone has diabetes but they are still in the early stage of the disease then they don’t have as much um symptoms and that’s how I see it, I actually see it this um this criteria as a a like additional like help to diagnose but the core I think would be the first two criteria, which is the difficulty and why its difficult for them to let go of things.
P3: So somebody can have hoarding disorder and not actually have as much clutter because-
Interviewee: Yeah.
P3: What really for you defines the disorder is the difficulty discarding?
Interviewee: Yeah yeah, although I know that the criteria says this is a very important one and it’s a necessary one.
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: But yeah I think people who who are more more financially resourceful so they actually have another house that is meant for their clutter to go to and more storage units, yeah.
P3: So um we were just about to ask about that yeah, so it sounds like how much space you have also kind of can play a role.
What about other people in the home who might control the space, do you think that um living with someone who who is in control of the space can impact it?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, and that’s why in uh in I think in this particular [INAUDIBLE]  relationship criteria also say it's not because of other people it is intervening the place.
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: Yeah and I, its common they live with family members but it's more under control.
P3: Mhm mhm okay.
P1: Okay another question we had for you, so for healthy individuals there seems to be be a degree of variance in the amount of free space they might like in their home so for example, some people might prefer to have uh uh clear counter top while others prefer to have some things out and and ready to use.
Could hoarding disorder you think just be an extension of this variance that surpasses a socially acceptable threshold?
Interviewee: Hm uh, I don’t think that is [INAUDIBLE]  yeah I think they’re I actually think that it's not a continuum this it uh um I think it’s a different thing, it's not only because they want something to be out there so it's easier to use, it more fear based its like if I don’t do this I may have negative consequences, so in this way I think these are different.
P3: Okay
P1: Okay
P3: And and kind of a follow up on that, uh in terms of the intended use of the space so that you have some functions [INAUDIBLE]  substantially compromises the intended use, um do you ever think about um whether there might be other appropriate uses for example, somebody who wants to use the space for storage where that space might not be intended for storage, but I guess I’m wondering what is an appropriate intended use for a space?
Interviewee: Hm uh um I I think the way I determine this so for example kitchen is intended to be used for cooking, and bedroom is for sleeping and um dining table is intended to to you can sit there and eat, yeah.
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: Yeah so that’s how I determine it.
P3: The intended use, okay.
Interviewee: Yeah.
P3: Um, the next criteria, the last criteria actually I’d like you to think through with us is the one that starts ‘this difficulty is due to a preceded need to save items and the distress associated with discarding them’ eh and um what we were wondering about this one was how you assess someone’s distress to determine what’s normal or abnormal with regard to discarding, what for you is distinguishing from abnormal stress?
Interviewee: Yeah, so um uh so so if someone says if that I want I want to get rid of this but I can’t bring myself to do this and because I would feel sad or it would be terrible if I can’t find it anymore, then like if I get rid of it later I can’t I when I want to use it I can’t have it it's like uh so when they have a lot of um uh when uh, because these would be like normal uh consequences for for normal people like we often will get rid of things and then later we realize ‘oh we shouldn’t have get gotten rid of that I can I could have used it now’ but its not um for people without hoarding disorder it wasn’t it wouldn’t feel like like almost like the end of the world or very um very extreme but for people with hoarding disorder they tend to um um consider these as very intolerable situations and emotions are quiet strong, yeah.
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: Am I answering your question?

P3: Yeah no no I think you, are I guess I’m wondering-
Interviewee: Okay.
P3: If you think patients do have lower levels of insight into their disorder um it might sometimes have difficulty with this criteria, or they might not be aware of how distressed they are?
Interviewee: Yeah yeah yeah they um they can they can say that ‘oh I already I know that I’m going to get rid of it and then sometimes I thought I should often’ so how long how long have have this uh this the [INAUDIBLE]  thing been sitting there and often times they would say ‘oh actually it's over a year now’, and so that that will give me an idea of maybe this is not its not as easy as they think it is for them to get rid of it.
P3: So they might not realize, they might not even realize that they have distress, so it's not even that they might be denying it to you they they really don’t know that they’re stressed.
Interviewee: Mhm yeah.
P3: Okay.P1: Okay, kind of inline with that we’ve we were wondering how do you define insight?
Interviewee: Hm hm, yeah that’s an interesting question, I would define insight as what is this person aware of um that discomfort or the suffering even the whole situation is is creating for them.
Yeah I’d say it's if they if one person if someone can realize they actually are suffering because they can't sleep in their bed, and they will feel bad about this then this is this is someone who is good insight, and if someone is like is almost like comfortable in their cocoon and feel like there’s nothing too serious about this um and they are not aware of their thought process or emotions, yeah almost like normal cluttered life, like this is someone I would have consider low insight.
P1: Yeah so its kind of related to the their understanding of the consequences of their actions.
Interviewee: Yeah, or also the the actual day to day experience, moment to moment experience of living with clutter.
P1: Okay.
Interviewee: Yeah.
P1: So in the literature there’s been kind of a break down of the concept of insight is a various constructs that uh might be contributing to what is seen as variation and insight for people with hoarding disorder so-
Interviewee: hmm.
P1: Some of theses, were just going to be wondering from you are any of theses things more prevalent or more problematic in your work?
So theses have included things like defensiveness, um the conflict of anosognosia or lack of ability to perceive your illness that something’s wrong, over valuation so beliefs about the values of items that are um abnormal and indifference.
Interviewee: Hm what’s the last one?
P1: Indifference.
Interviewee: Indifference, hm hm and the question was what?
<<<<<<< HEAD
LAUGHING
P1: Uh no no problem we were just wondering are, if have you seen theses, are any of them more prevalent or problematic?
=======

Interviewer1: Uh no no problem we were just wondering are, if have you seen theses, are any of them more prevalent or problematic?
>>>>>>> 1558733b9f854ba59d98de1e30d8eb8f82c5feda
Interviewee: Uhuh, huh, I would imagine there is um, I would imagine I am only seeing um a more mild version of there because if people come for treatments they they they are like a self selected sample already and, but I do I did have heard people describe before like years and years ago they were in the stage where they don’t see it as a problem at all kind of like indifference in the situation that you mentioned yeah so I I’ve heard people describing their previous state more close to what you are describing but because they are here for treatment, they are they’ve overcome a lot of these not that they are totally aware of it all the time.
P1: Okay so in the practice that you have now, in the patients that you see, you don’t see much defensiveness or anosognosia, or even the overvalued ideation, you don’t see those as much?
Interviewee: Well there, I I see these um but but they would be defensive sometimes but its its like um its like these are okay to communicate in therapy, and like I say they are defensive but but they are not um they are open to to different um um different perspectives, and um so when you are when you are saying theses things um different categories I was imagining the worst case of theses things so yeah, so thank you for reminding me that in my practice I do see people sometimes they would have things coming up yeah.
P1: OkayP3: Okay, um if you were to, it sounds like you don’t it sounds like what you’re saying is that um in your practice a lot of times when patients see you they already have a degree of insight because they’re seeking treatment um-
Interviewee: Mhm
P3: If you were to or if you have tried to explain hoarding disorder to a patient with low insight how would you explain it, how would you try to help a patient with hoarding disorder understand what hoarding disorder is and that they have it?
Interviewee: Hm, mhm uh you mean uh to someone who is seeking treatment or to someone who is maybe wondering if they have hoarding disorder or not?
P3: Yeah to someone who is having a problem with insight into their hoarding disorder, to someone who’s maybe isn’t isn’t quite sure, or isn’t quite convinced they have this disorder.
Interviewee: Mhm, so I’m trying to imagine an example so maybe it would be someone who says ‘oh I just have too many things and my my daughter asked me come see you’ yeah there were cases like this too, yeah.
So in this situation I would I would try to help them to become aware of how this um situation is and getting in the way of them living a better life condition they can have could have so I can ask them ‘oh um is there any inconvenience?’ ‘oh no’ they may be defensive and say ‘oh I’m very used to it I’m very comfortable with it there’s no problem about this’ and then um then so kind of like motivational interview and try to help them to see the discrepancy of what they could have to like to live um and in the current condition and, uh so um- sorry I’m blanking out on the original question.
P3: Oh no no no, that was a great answer it sounds like if you’re saying you’re trying to help patients to understand their disorder you really focus on they way that the disorder is getting in the way of their life and try to highlight it and how their lives could be better/
Interviewee: Yeah yeah yeah.
P3: Okay, and NAME ?
P1: Yeah so the next thing that we want to do is talk about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder have for their behavior, so for the next couple of questions we want you really to think about how your patients would respond to these questions.
Interviewee: Mhm.
P1: For the first one uh and this is from the Brown assessment of belief scale, what do you think has caused you to have these behaviors, do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?
Interviewee: Hm and I you want me to imagine a patient, how a patient uh would-
P1: How patients would-
Interviewee: Answer the questions.
P1: Respond yeah.
Interviewee: Hm I think they would try to recall if they have any um relatives that may also have similar tendencies, and if they do they may say ‘yeah I believe is biological, its because my father for example also would have clutter INAUDIBLEP1: Okay, okay um and so the next one we wanted to to ask was: uh how connived that are you that you need to keep theses things, or that bad will come of discarding how do you think your patients would-
Interviewee: How do what?
Can you say the question again?
P1: Yeah, no problem.
How convinced are you that you need to keep theses things, or that something bad will come of discarding them?
Interviewee: Hm I think it would depend on what what item it is, but uh i'll just imagine the the most extreme case so, the most extreme case is that they would um for example, one person keeping um her moms um uh han-hand like the check um that had her moms handwriting, um so she would she would be one hundred percent sure that she has to keep it and because if she doesn’t keep it then she won't have anything with her moms handwriting on it and uh her reasoning is, ‘this is so um this is so um so like like this is so important how can I let go of this?’, this is impossible I would never, I would never do that.
So yeah that would be one hundred percent sure I would never get rid of it.
P3: Mhm mhm.
Um for the next question I want to remind you of a of the list that you generated of reasons that people give for um their hoarding behavior, like um the list included good memories, using it later, giving the object a good home, um to what extent do you think that um that theses are um closed-hook reasons for justifying a pathological need um versus actual explanations for their behavior?
Interviewee: hm.
P3: I don’t know if that question was quite clear.
Interviewee: um.
P3: So do you think that theses reasons are the real reasons, or do you think these reasons are just the result of an underlying need that they have just kind of come up with to justify their um hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Hm yeah, yeah this is a very good question, hm, I would I would say at least half of the case this is very more conservative estimation, I would say this would be the more um uh more superficial reasons and it may and I don’t know if it's something they come up to justify the behavior, or this is a kind of like a defense mechanism for something more vulnerable deep down, yeah I um I’m thinking as I’m saying this I am remembering sometimes like several cases in the groups that I led, people would realize actually a lot of times they are they are having under the real underlying issue for example, for one person who had shared, he doesn’t know he wouldn’t know what to do with his life if he no longer has hoarding problems, its almost like now he has something to focus on and if if I don’t have to focus on this, and my problem is solved he will be facing something that’s terribly scary and I don’t know what to do with my life and so I I as I’m answering the question I’m thinking, about this example and I think there are other examples too like, its more about the emotions underlying underlying that’s probably more scary to face so they are probably more like uh um the more uh thoughts and justifications for for all this behaviors and they are thinking of ‘this is why I should keep this’ so its to not directly tough the emotions for example loss of a family member, or yeah loss of an identity of the past that they used to have when they were still working, for example, yeah.P3: NAME  uh want to go ahead?
P1: Okay.
P3: the next one?
P1: Yeah, so um another questions we wanted to ask related to this was do you think that cultural forces that are present in our society today that associate value and self-worth with consumption and material positions, do you think that those forces play any role in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Hm I personally think so, yeah I do think so, yeah the ‘cause ‘cause the society seems to give a lot of reinforcement um on the capacity of buying and what profess- what items can mean to someone status someone identity and someone’s tastes, you have good things then you are a tasteful and elegant person, and yeah a lot of it seems that uh this is such a consumer based society, and a lot of things are telling you to buy and all the holidays are all about buying, so yeah I think that society plays a big role in this, not that is causes hoarding disorder but it definitely encourage it.
P3: Um, so we have I think like maybe one or two more questions, um I we’re going to try to keep it confined to the next five minutes but I want to be respectful of your time so if you need to cut us off as we wrap this up, please just let us know, okay?
Interviewee: Okay.
P3: Okay, for the next questions are kind of focused on [INAUDIBLE]  kind of practically and how patients with low insight get to treatment, so if you could, please describe um what you think the typically process that occurs for patients to get to your office is like.
Interviewee: Hm, uh you mean for patients with low insight?P3: Mhm, like what is the process for patients that they are able to transitions from low insight to a place where they are able to get treatment?
Interviewee: Hm um, I remember a few people that shared with me that they were they were in the beginning very ambivalent about where they had a problem or whether they want to get treatment, and so they they started to to enter this ambivalent and because somehow they they started to realize this is not normal or not everybody or not many people can encounter situations like this and I think they actually some of them mentioned that they were watching the hoarder show, and then it was kind of making them like to think ‘ am I like that?’ or ‘how much am I not like them’ and they started to like have a context of ‘oh how that’s like’ or ‘how I can compare to this person in the TV show’, so that has pros and cons and that sometimes encouraged them to to want to um get more information’s about, it sometimes is makes them feel like um they’re very scared to come out because the hoarders show is very extreme and so they will start and then then look for more information and um an then almost like staring to open their eyes up and starting to pay attention to to things and resources and a lot of my um our folks are familiar with the local organization, um mental health association, they do um a lot of outreach to to different settings so they they start to get in touch with this organization so they start to get in touch with their peer group and a lot of people in the peer support group they are still um kind of like feel like they are just clutter-ers they are not hoarders, they are very sensitive about the the differentiation of the two different types of people.
Yeah so I think that that’s how I imagine that they start like just sitting at home thinking there’s no problem and then they start to reach out to resources for help, yeah.
P3: Um and how long has their behavior typically been going on by the time you see them in treatment?
Interviewee: Hm, um I would say decades.
P3: Decades?
Interviewee: Mhm, yeah.
P3: Uh, and
P1: Um
P3: Go ahead NAME
P1: No go.
P3: No it’s okay, you take the next one.
P1: Mkay, um so when you will first see a patient how aware are you, or how aware are the typical patients that they have hoarding disorder when they first come in?
Interviewee: How aware are uhuh.
P1: Yeah.
Interviewee: The people I would see they would they would typically they would already say they have hoarding problems; I want to see you yeah they would already self identify as someone with hoarding problems
P3: Oh okay.
Interviewee: Yeah
P3: And what do you think the role of family and friends in kind of getting to a hoarding diagnoses are?
Interviewee: Yeah they are they are, I would say I’ve met some of them they were encouraged by their family members yeah-
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: So they-
P3: Which which of their family members most often are involved?
Interviewee: Uh which one, which of them?
P3: Mhm, which family members most often kind of help them to to reach their-Interviewee: I can I’m under the impression that more often the the um son or the daughters, the children, yeah they younger generation.
P3: Mhm mhm okay, um and what about kind of employees of institutions or um state employees, such as social workers, police officers or things like homeowners associations are they ever involved, and if so how frequently or in what capacity?
Interviewee: Yeah those those organizations are sometimes involved too, so there were there are people who are seeking treatment because their their building manager and also social worker in the building, if they live in senior housing um realize the problem and then they get involved, yeah.
P3: Okay.
P1: Okay.
P3: Um yeah
P1: Yeah so uh were just about at the end of the interview, the last question that we really wanted to ask you was what do you think are the biggest things that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Hm I think there are so many big things we still don’t know about hoarding disorder.
I’m umING many many many questions are like like in my head jumping up and saying ‘pick me pick me’.
P3:ING You don’t have to pick one, you can make a list if you want.
Interviewee: So I I I find it very interesting that uh because hoarding disorder started when say when people were in their childhood, so I wonder I think this is so understudied, because we are now focusing on the already very sick ones, which are the older ones but we know the behavior starts so early on, what’s going on and how do they continue?
Like is it simply that after they leave home then they don’t have parents um picking up things or or controlling them so they start to get this disorder?
Or maybe there are some other things that make this behavior worse or continues some?
Or does it just disappear um say in their mid-life and they just stop hoarding?
I just feel like there is it’s a mystery how what what happens to these younger, or even kids yeah so this is one reason, and the other reason is related to one of questions you asked we we are very much focused on on the more um the more cognitive components or how people think how people with hoarding problems think and therefore they have theses behaviors but what about something more underlying?
Like there is research starting to look at um cells and um looking at emotional tolerance and I think that these are all still these are all very important to continue to look at into the more deeper roots of the problem.
Yeah and
P3: Okay
Interviewee: Of course we’ve all heard the [INAUDIBLE]
P3: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewee: Sorry
P3: No no that’s a great answer.
Interviewee: Yeah and I I said, they last thing was that of course there’s heritability but we don’t know which genes yet, but that’s obviously more up there and worth digging into.
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: Yeah, so manyING.P3: Um well, thank you so much for you time and for your really wonderful and thoughtful answers that was a great interview, and we really really appreciate you talking with us about this.
Um uh just kind of like as a closer, we were wondering if you could think of so um they ways that we’re are kind of going about doing this and getting in touch with all these people is by asking at the end of our interview if there is anybody else who they think it really important that we talk to about these issues or who they think um are the key people so that we don’t miss anyone important, so is there anyone you really think we should talk to?
Interviewee: Um I believe you have you have many people many researchers in the field already on the list like [NAME]  and [NAME]  of course, I think of them.
I wonder if you would like to talk to people who are not psychologist, because they are like the MFTs who are working with this population and I because I don’t know uh what kind of clinicians or what kind of researchers are you are targeting so I don’t know if you want more variety or less variety?
P3: Yeah, no were trying to kind of get a pretty board I think um picture of what the clinical consensus looks like, so across the-
Interviewee: Hm uh I see so maybe I can write you an email and just list a few names that I know locally that maybe you can pick whether they would be a good fit.
P3: That perfect thank you so much I’ll follow up with you via email to get those names.
I really appreciate your time um and it was really really good interview so thank you so much for you thoughtful responses.
Interviewee: Thank you, oh thank you, good luck.
P3: Thank you
P1: Alright, thank you.
Interviewee: okay bye, nice talking to you.
P3: Nice talking to you, take care.
Interviewee: You too, bye.