Interviewer: Ok, thank you for doing that listening exercise with us.
And again just to kind of let you know our methods here.
We’re going to take those lists from clinicians and compare them to a list generated by patients in response to some more questions to see where it overlaps, where there are [INAUDIBLE] .
And now we would like to move into kind of a more freeform, qualitative section of the interview.
And just to kind of get us started with the conversation, we would like to here just a little about your background related to hoarding disorder, what your work is like now, I know that we have both read a bunch of it, so we kind of know the answer to this one but just to kind of get us situated here.
Interviewee: Ok
Interviewer: If you could give us a brief overview of your history with patients who have hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Sure.
I am a clinical researcher with a social work background.
So my degrees are in social work, social work clinical researcher, whatever you want to call it.
I got into this work because of my work on obsessive compulsive and [INAUDIBLE]  conditions, which hoarding is considered one of [INAUDIBLE] .
So, in the course of my work on OCD, I encountered some cases of hoarding early in my career.
I didn’t think too much about it except that they didn’t behave in the same fashion that my typical OCD patients behaved during treatment, and I remember wondering about it at the time.
So, um, can you prompt me what else you need to know?
Interviewer: Oh just to kind of, that was it.
Um, it’s just, maybe there was a follow up question that would be right now in your research what is the particular [INAUDIBLE]  for you.
Interviewee: Oh yeah.
I am newly retired from the deanship and soon from the faculty at the university.
So, I am not undertaking new research projects on hoarding.
The only projects in front of me right now are writing up some research studies that were done and we have not finished the work, the publishing of them.
Those are all treatment related studies, not completely, [INAUDIBLE] .
I also am likely to have a book contract shortly.
To write a book for, that is broadly useful by a variety of professional groups as well as patients and their families.
I have an  book in one of their series in which they try to make things as accessible as possible in terms of understanding the problem and treating it.
Interviewer: That sounds like a good project.
It sounds like there’s still definitely will be an audience for that.
Interviewee: But that’s probably more about communicating with the people who need to know than, it is a project, it’s not a study of hoarding per say.Interviewer: Right, right, right.
Ok, so now we’re going to get into some questions that are more focused on your kind of knowledge based about hoarding disorder.
So, if we were to talk really broadly, what, and you kind of started to do this with the list already, but just to talk in a more freeform way.
For you, what are the most salient features of hoarding disorder.
Particularly focusing on the difference between maybe what would be considered normal saving behavior or collecting and what constitutes hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Ok.
Um, I guess a salient feature is really that there is a remarkable breadth in the symptom patterns and the rationale for saving.
Which leads me to think that that much variability in the patient population, one starts to try figure out whether there is a something more basic going on that can manifest in a wide variety of ways that the source of the problem is far more fundamental.
And I think that there are probably two places to look for that.
One is in the animal literature on hoarding because there is an animal literature and that, uh, those researchers can actually take the brains apart of the animals and look at what’s going on, uh, and try to figure out the extent to which the human brain has elements that are related to whatever drives the hoarding.
This is probably brain stem level problem, not hyper-cognitive functioning.
Interviewer: Hmm
Interviewee: Um, and so you think about birds that nest, squirrels that, uh, they’re scatter hoarders and larder hoarders.
I find that a really interesting thing, and if I were to go back and start over in my, you know, early twenties, I might well go down that path.
Um, the other aspect of hoarding that catches my attention is there, uh, is an awful lot of emotion that people attach, emotion and identity meaning if you will, that people attach to objects that seems to distinguish people who hoard from people who treat objects in a more ordinary fashion.
We’re all capable of being attached to objects so that’s not the issue.
Um, it’s the degree of attachment and the kinds of things that people attach the emotions to if you will.
So, sometimes they’ll say stuff that the rest of us just look at and go “what in the world?”Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: Even if we say things for, you know, because we are attached to it.
So, uh, I don’t know what drives that and I think, so that’s one that I find interesting and distinctive about hoarding.
Uh, the lack of organizational capacity is pretty universal, but there are a few people who hoard who actually can organize quite well and they can organize other people’s stuff, they can’t do it with their own.
And I’m, again we’re thinking that is that emotion in the way, is that why they can’t do it, they can’t use higher cognitive function in order to get things from here.
Uh, so those are some of the interesting ones, um, you know there are some side features that are sort of interesting.
[NAME]  called it cutter blindness where you stop seeing things, but I don’t find that essentially unique because all of us who live in our homes, you know once you stash the boxes and the books in the corner, you kind of forget about them because they’re not in your path.
So, the fact that they don’t see the clutter anymore is just I think habituation, um, so I wouldn’t go there with it.
Interviewer: What about, do you think that certain kinds of people are more likely to be hoarders?
Maybe older or younger people, people of a certain grades, socioeconomic status, or region, or rural or urban.
Do you think that…
Interviewee: I don’t.
I don’t.
I think we got that part of the problem with the variability, it’s a… Both old and young have it.
When it’s in the younger population, it just doesn’t show up in quite the same way because somebody else controls the environment, but, uh, as they get… If they got the tendency, they usually have it from a pretty young age, and it’s a tendency to accumulate things and be unable to let them go for whatever reason.
So, that’s consistent.
Socioeconomic status is huge in the range.
They tend to be poorer, partly because they’re so disorganized, that they, they don’t organize their lives in order to make good use of many or working capacity.
But no, I don’t see any pattern of that ilk.
I think the patterns are probably at the cognitive level of that capacity and possibly emotional.Interviewer: Mmhmm.
And thinking specifically about, um, kind of that distinction between normal saving behavior and what would constitute hoarding disorder, can you think of specific cases or a case that was particularly challenging for you to make the distinction between whether you were dealing with a true disorder or normal saving behavior?
And how did you end up making your decision in that case.
Interviewee: The cases that I have seen have already been bedded within our research project.
So, and I’ve not been the one who is overseeing the diagnostic process where I would be likely to encounter that.
Um, there are a couple of things that I can point to.
The, one of the problems that we have encountered and I have seen is, uh, a couple of situations where the level of depression was so high, both of these were men interestingly, that it looked like the hoarded home or the cluttered home and the disorganized home was really about being unable to get themselves to do anything that would clean up the house or enable them to keep things straight.
And, that looked like an emotional problem with depression more than a powerful urge to save.
That is, I’m just to tired, I can’t do it versus oh I need to hang on to this.
It’s that rationale.
That can be a little bit more difficult.
I’ve seen a number of OCD cases that had hoarding mixed in but was not the sole problem.
And just a couple of OCD cases in which, that what looked like hoarding was in fact OCD, and the only reason it stuck with them is that it was contaminated and couldn’t touch it.
That is not because they wanted to hang on to it, they were stuck with it.
So, the best, I don’t find that particularly difficult.
Somebody who didn’t have a background in OCD might.
But sometimes I worry about people who are organizers who may or may not be able to make that distinction.
Same with the depression.
Interviewer: Sure, and that kind of moves us nicely into the next question or the next set of questions, which looks specifically at the DSM five criteria.
Um, and, so the first part of that question is have you ever had to use these criteria, um, and applied it to the intensive diagnosing an individual with hoarding disorder?
Have you ever been part of that diagnosing process?
Interviewee: Um, yes and no. I have not, at this stage, late stage of my career, had to sit down and diagnose people using the structured interview for hoarding disorder [INAUDIBLE]  that [NAME]  have used, that’s the standard interview that is available at this point.
I’ve never had to use that to diagnose, and that’s because I’ve never been in that position in terms of looking where the client, since that was developed.
You know, only a few years old now.
Uh, but, at the same time I, uh, I was part of the process of developing the criteria that now are DSM five.
So it is hard to say I’m not involved in it, we were heavily involved in it.
It’s just that it wasn’t in DSM five at the time.Interviewer: Right.
So in thinking about those criteria, although I know you haven’t like physically applied them, you have clearly given them a great deal of thought.
Do you think that there are things in the criteria that are sometimes challenging or um difficult to apply or that perhaps clinicians with different levels of experience with patients with HD might apply differently?
Does anything come to mind?
Interviewee: Um, the only thing that occurs to me is the need, once you verify that there’s clutter in the home and that it interferes with function, it’s really the differential diagnosis that seems to me to be important because hoarding disorder requires that there be a, um, a hard requirement to have difficulty letting go of objects and that can sometimes be a little bit hard to distinguish, whether the rationale that you’re hearing people describe matches our understanding of, again, a wide variety of reasons why people have trouble letting go.
Interviewer: Mmhmm, mmhmm
Interviewee: And so you can hear multiple different reasons for that, that you want to make sure the difficulty parting with objects gets a pattern.
That’s all I can think of at this point.
The clutter part is pretty straight forward.
There’s, you know, an acquisition is only a best fire at this point.
We struggle with them because we felt that current and post hoc positions should be a part of criteria but, oh well, you know, it’s the best fire.
Interviewer: And so now I actually want to look at some of the criteria and to get you to talk through how you make these determinations, and again this is because we’d like to understand if that there are differences in the way that clinicians think about this as opposed to the way patients do.
So one of the criteria says that the patient must have persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions, regardless of their actual value.
And I guess one of the things we were wondering about is how clinicians make the determination that it has actual value?
What makes the value judgement an individual with hoarding disorder makes inappropriate?
Um, like, because we can think of many different kinds of value, like monetary value, emotional value, aesthetic value that can be, you know, really subjective.
So, um, in a clinician’s area, what do we mean by value?
Interviewee: I would say it doesn’t really matter what you mean by value because it’s regardless of their actual value, so you don’t really care what the actual value is.
You just care that the person values them in some way, shape, or form for those various reasons you just mentioned.
And as long as the person has trouble letting them go, parting with them, or whatever we decide to call it, you don’t care why.
Do you see what I mean?
It’s interesting to us to know why, but, you know, monetary values got nothing to do with it, aesthetic value doesn’t have anything to do.
It’s whatever they think.
They want it.
As long as they want it, so be it.
Interviewer: Ok.
So people could hoard something that’s, you know, objectively valuable?
You know what I mean?
Interviewee: Oh yeah.
You could hoard oil paintings.Interviewer: Ok. So the next one we’d like you to talk us through is, um, the criteria states: the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially comprise their intended use.
So the first thing that maybe you can talk through for us is the idea of clutter and how you determine what counts as clutter.
Interviewee: Ok.
Um, I’ll just make a brief comment so it doesn’t drive me nuts.
I don’t know why they had to day congest and clutter.
It seems to me that if you’re congested, you’re cluttered.
And if you’re cluttered, you’re congested, but oh well.
Not my decision.
Um, so, what constitutes clutter?
In my experience, it is a… the word random comes to mind, but they’re not always random.
It is a mixture of objects that are lying on top of each other, on top of furnishings, on the floor, and I guess those are the only two places they can possibly be.
I’m looking around the living room I am sitting in.
if I were to clutter this room, what would that look like?
Um, so it is a pile of mix use objects that don’t necessarily go together, and that’s the disorganization part of it.
If, however, I walked into a home and I saw a stack of books lined up that, you know, in some fashion that looked like they belong together, even if they were stacked up right, it doesn’t constitute clutter until the quantity gets to the point where you just can’t use things in the space.
So I could clutter this room very neatly by adding a huge pile of books all over the place.
And I could keep them neat, and I probably would have a hoarding problem if you could verify that I had trouble parting with all those books.
Interviewer: So the disorganization seems to play a role, but it is not necessary.
Interviewee: It’s not absolutely necessary.
Every now and again, you bump into an organized hoarder, um, but they can’t let them go and there you have it.
It’s rare.
It’s quite rare.
Interviewer: Do you feel like something like home size might play into whether or not someone, um, someone’s space is considered cluttered?
Like if someone has a huge basement versus if they live in a one trailer home.
Interviewee: I’m sure there’s some truth to that, but someone with a significant hoarding problem would have to have more than a basement or attic that was full of stuff.
Interviewer: Mmhmm
Interviewee: They would, they would need, it has to be in living spaces and it has to impede their use or you don’t have a hoarding problem, you just have somebody who owns a lot of stuff.Interviewer: Ok. And that kind of brings us to the part of the question that talks about intended use, um, the compromises of intended use.
Interviewee: By the way, I think one of the things you also or want to be aware of, and I’m sure you know this, is that if someone else lives in the home and they protect the living spaces, and the, it’s only, it’s the spaces that the other person who has control over that is a disaster, that can be one hoarder in the home and on non-hoarder who has control.
So you can have a disastrous basement and attic and have one of those people in the house.
But, if you, if that house is lived in by only one person, then I have a hard time calling them a hoarder.
Interviewer: Mmhmm.
Interviewee: Ok, I’m sorry, go back to your question.
Interviewer: Yeah, so um, we were talking about kind of compromising use of the space and, we were wondering if you could talk through, again, what counts as compromised use and how, you know, people can come in, whether the person’s intent is to use the space for storage even though it happens to be a stove or countertop, and whether there are perhaps differences in how much free space an individual needs or likes to have around.
If that can be part of what’s going on in hoarding disorder.
[INAUDIBLE]
Interviewee: There, you know, there’s tremendous variability in everyday housekeeping by most people.
And, so, it, hoarding, um, would be diagnosed if you will only if, I guess I can give you an example.
If someone comes to the door, a friend, and wants to stop in to, I don’t know, invite you out or something.
If you can’t happily sit them down in some comfortable space in your home because you have to run around and move boxes and stuff in order to make it pass-ible and/or whatever, then you’ve got a problem.
So, people should be able to visit somewhat freely in anyone’s home and be received comfortably.
Um, uh, what else do I want to say about that?
So I guess what I’m saying is that in order to make space available that is livable, if it takes more than just a few minutes to do that, then you probably have a hoarding problem, unless the person is amidst some sort of renovation of the house or some major project that has got things in great disarray.
But if this is a steady state and it can’t be cleaned up quickly, then there’s probably a problem.
There are a lot of people who just, you know, throw stuff around and then run around once a month and clean it all up.
That’s a different, that’s just a messy home.Interviewer: Ok, the last part of the DSM five we’d like you to talk through with us is this part where it says: this difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with describing them.
And I guess we’d like you to talk through the determinations of distress and what level of distress is normal and abnormal and whether there are sometimes problems in assessing the levels of distress that hoarders have about discarding, particularly in cases where the patient might have very low insight about their own problem.
Interviewee: Um, the distress associated with discarding it is usually pretty evident, there, they report it freely.
Indicate, again, you know, the kinds of oh I’ll feel guilty, oh I’ll feel sad, oh I’ll feel anxious.
Some negative emotion will occur if they try to let go of the object.
Some people might appear to be able let go freely, but in the back of their mind, they have a plan for how they’re going to recover it, or buy it again, or whatever it is they might do.
One might need to double check if there’s no significant emotion displayed, whether or not they have engaged in it, avoidance behavior in order to get to that point.
Interviewer: Mmhmm.
Ok. So, I would like to kind of return to one of the free lists that we made.
What we talked about, reasons that people give for their hoarding.
Now for you, do you feel like these explanations that people give you for why they save are real reasons or are they kind of justifications for an underlying need?
Interviewee: What a good question.
That’s a really good question, and I don’t know the answer to it.
Um, again, I’m concerned about the variability in the reasons that people give, and when you have that much variability… So for our anxiety disorders in mental health, you know, when somebody’s got panic, you can rely on emotional features that to help you diagnose the panic.
You’re going to get a pretty consistent report of not exactly the same symptoms but, you know, within a narrow range.
And for hoarding, there’s just all these multiple emotional states that they report or reasons for saving.
So it does make me think that sometimes they make it up.
That there’s something about the attachment, and I don’t know if it’s visual.
For some people, I’ve seen tactile things, you know, stuff that they can touch, that’s either smooth or soft or whatever.
They’re attracted to it, that there’s some much more basic level of attraction or need and they make up a reason to explain it.Interviewer: Right. And I guess kind of these question fit into that whole idea which has a lot do with insight.
So, there’s this brown assessment of belief scale about the degree to which patients are able to correctly identify their [INAUDIBLE]  as being a part of a disorder.
And so my question to you is when you talk to patients, for example, one of the questions on the scale is, what do you think has caused you to have these behaviors, these hoarding behaviors?
Do these behaviors have a psychiatric or an underlying biological cause?
In talking to patients, do you think that patients see their behavior as having a biological cause, a psychological cause, a personal history cause, in cases where they do actually recognize that they have a disorder?
Interviewee: Um, I think again we’ve got some variability there, and they’re doing their best like we all are to explain why they do what they do, which is getting them into trouble.
So I wouldn’t necessarily trust what patients say about why they do what they do in terms of being the quote on quote real explanation for it.
Although, they’re certainly observers of their own behavior, so whatever they tell you is going to be useful in terms of clinical treatment.
Um, but it’s sort of another version of the same question you asked earlier if there are, if these are post hoc explanations for things.
You know, if you got a big problem, you grasp at straws to explain why.
At the same time, some of those reasons could be very valid.Interviewer: Mmhmm.
And you’ve talked a lot about the fact that there is a lot of variability in these explanations.
Do you feel like there are consistent subgroups within patients of hoarding disorder that might be useful or do you think that it’s true kind of, you know, not random, but true variability in the sense that it would be difficult to kind of group people?
Interviewee: Well, I think we are interested in trying to do that.
So, my sense is that the people who say things because they, in their minds eye they have a use for it or idea for how they would use it.
Usefulness and utility are a driving force for them.
I would say that I see that behavior more often in men who are collecting broken furniture by the side of the road, stuff of that ilk.
Something that they can take and do something with, and then they don’t because they collect too much of it.
That feels different to me than what I would say is perhaps a traditional gender role in which a number of the women don’t want to part with objects because they remind them of something that’s important to them.
Those two feel different to me in terms of the rationale.
Again, these could be post hoc.
It feels like we might have two relatively distinct groups.
One of which is driven by emotion, and the other is driven by a cognitive process.
Um, I had another example of that in the back of my mind.
What was it?
Um, oh yes.
People who anthropomorphite objects and they feel for these objects, so they feel upset on behalf of the objects that might be wasted or mistreated or whatever.
Kind of like they would be pets.
Um, that too feels a bit different to me, and there are a lot of people who don’t have that feature at all, so that’s probably a minority.
In fact, I’m pretty confident it’s a minority.
But they’re somewhat a unique minority.
So, and how do we deal with that?
And is that harder to change than what you attach your sort of sadness and loss to because guilt goes with that one pretty heavily, and I don’t know if that’s different.
So I think that we’re interested in subgroups.
We haven’t really gotten this close at this stage of the research to investigate in that.
Interviewer: Ok.
So I just want to be respectful of your time.
We are at noon.
We have some more questions for you, but feel free to cut of the interview if at any point you’re…
Interviewee: That’s ok.
Why don’t I stick with you for another ten and let’s see how we do.Interviewer: Ok. So the next question also has to do with insight.
There’s a lot of literature that describes problems with patients who have this disorder having low insight.
So if I were to ask you how you would define the concept of insight, how would you define it?
Interviewee: The extent to which the client recognizes or is aware of the fact that they have a problem with too much clutter and difficulty parting with objects and that they consider that to be not in their best interest, and therefore something that they would like to correct.
So in my view, this is awareness of illness more like schizophrenia.
Where in this case, the person who hoards their attachment, their strong feeling about an object, that they recognize that they have a very strong feeling about it and other people don’t, and therefore what they do because of that strong feeling has gotten them into trouble and other people don’t have that problem and they would like to be more like other people.
That’s the best I can do with it right now.
It’s not insight in the sense of OCD symptoms where you are aware that the thing that you fear in terms of the obsession that a person has, so you know, serious health consequence of touching this thing, you know, touching, I don’t know, dirty toilet.
That they exaggerate that and believe that a consequence could occur.
It’s not quite the same, it doesn’t fit.
We’ve tried for some years to figure out how to assess insight in hoarding disorder, and it’s not going to be the same way we assess it.
So the brown assessment of beliefs scale doesn’t work well.
We’ve tried, but we haven’t gone over into the literature on schizophrenia for example or psychosis to see whether there’s a better instrument over there.
Interviewer: So it sounds like what you’re saying that, about this distinction.
I’m going to try to articulate what you just said and you can correct me is that it’s not so much insight is that the patients recognize that their need to keep things is irrational, so much is that they recognize that their behavior is a problem and they want to change the problem in hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yes.Interviewer1: That’s a really interesting distinction.
I can see why that would make the brown assessment scale to not work as well.
Do you feel like there are some subgroups within hoarding disorder that would be, that are different in terms of insights?
We’ve talked about a lot of ways of potentially subdividing people within, you know, that there’s a variety, that you find that some of the subgroups have an easier time recognizing their behavior as presenting a problem or harder time.
Interviewee: Yes.
I think, honestly, that it’s all from less severe, those from the less severe problem that may recognize it more easily.
Possibly those with, uh, no I’m going to take that back.
That doesn’t work.
Yeah, I, uh, you know, at the same time I also think the level of awareness is going to be on a continuum and people will sometimes realize that they need to fix something, especially in certain emotional states, and other times be unable to see why anybody, you know…Why don’t I just say that one of the challenges we brought into in terms of differences among people is that people who have been pressured heavily to get rid of things against their will and without taking their wish to save into account, often will have a major reaction in which they say I don’t have a problem.
But you can’t trust that because if you could calm them down and get them to not be anxious about what somebody would do to them or to their object, they would often be able to say well, you know, it really is kind of too much stuff and I do need to do something about it.
But at the same time, nobody has the right to tell them to do that.
So it will vary depending on their experience of pressure that they find intrusive, invasive, and problematic.
Interviewer2: Ok, um, I’d like to step in and ask a question kind of relating back to what you mentioned earlier about what the meaning of insight is in the context of hoarding disorder.
So in the literature, there’s been kind of a breakdown of the concept of insight into different constructs including defensiveness, anosognosia overvalued ideation, and indifference.
In your experience, are any of these more prevalent or problematic in your work with individuals with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Ok, let’s go down that list [NAME] .
The first one you said was…
Interviewer2: Defensiveness.
Interviewee: Defensiveness… I think you’re going to find that, ok clearly, commonly, but let’s come back to that.
What was the next one?
Interviewer2: Anosognosia.
Interviewee: Um, yeah, I’m going to say that that’s a little rarer.
Go ahead, what’s the next one?
Interviewer2: Overvalued ideation.
Interviewee: Um, that would be overvaluing the objects themselves.
That’s where I always get into trouble with this one, overvalued ideation.
What’s the ideation we’re talking about here?
Interviewer2: Yeah, I think my understanding from the literature is that it relates to kind of that attachment to that object that you described.
Interviewee: Right.
And a belief in the need to keep it for some reason.
You know, here we’re getting into emotion versus belief in it.
It’s a little tricky distinction to make.
Um, yeah, go ahead, it’s hard to say.
What was the last one?
Interviewer2: The last one was indifference.
Interviewee: And what did you mean by indifference?
Indifference to what?
Interviewer2: Indifference to the state of the home, the living situation that they’re in.Interviewee: I see.
Yeah, that I think is relatively rare in hoarding.
We see conditions of squalor, for example, are not so very common unless you’re working in particular contexts where you’ve got a lot of poverty and mental illness concurrent with what might look like hoarding and is a good bit of squalor which is indifference in the living, you know, people just don’t seem to care what condition they live in and I’m going to say that that’s not so common in hoarding and is probably accompanied by other comorbidity that better explains that indifference.
Which would be, I’m guessing it’s going to be a serious mental illness.
The others, defensiveness, really that’s about the history of what family members and/or authorities have said and done with them.
I think that’s historical experience rather than anything to do with the hoarding per say.
Um, it does occur.
We certainly see it.
Those tend to be the non-voluntary cases and the people working in community public health and fire and so forth are going to run into more of that.
But those of us who are providing clinical treatment are going to see less of that.
So part of the challenge is that these cases come from all over the place, and whoever’s talking to them, you know, how do they come to attention and so that’s going to have something to do with these different levels that you’re talking about.
Interviewer: So it sounds like what you’re saying is that kind of the major, real causes of insight of hoarding disorder might be that lack of ability to perceive the illness and perhaps overvalued ideation being the main one than the others, indifference and defensiveness being either other comorbidities or reactions.
Interviewee: Yeah.
When you speak to the issue of overvalued ideation, you probably have to do a little bit more picking apart of the concept.
Because if we’re just talking about overvaluing objects, that’s a little bit clearer than, you know, somehow specifying what that ideation is we’re talking about.
I get it much more easily when they talk about it for OCD than I get it for hoarding.
Interviewer: Mmhmm.
And if you were to think in your clinical experience working with people with this disorder, can you give me maybe an example of how you would try to help a patient with low insight to gain insight?
So what kinds of thing s would you say to your patient to help them gain insight?
Interviewee: I would go straight to motivational interviewing techniques in which you do a variety of strategies, but what you always do is take a backseat.
You never ever want to try to convince them to do anything.
You ask them questions to help them articulate why they’re making the choices they made and on a, you know, moment by moment basis and often use things like devil’s advocate to say well you know these things are obviously important to you.
Why wouldn’t you want to hang on to them?
I don’t know why you would ever consent to treatment because these are important to you.
And let them take it from there, so you would always, the way I describe it is, you would always sit on the same side of the table right with them, right next to them, looking at the stuff in the that way they look at it and just keep asking questions.Interviewer: Um, we’ve talked a little bit about the process by which patients get to your office already and you know, you’ve mentioned that there are sometimes self-motivations for bringing people to your office and that there might be family members involved sometimes.
When you do see family, friends, or a social network playing a role in helping patients to come to see you or to come to see a clinician, which relatives or members of the social network are normally involved in those cases?
Interviewee: I would say the most common at this stage of the game are adult children and second are spouses.
Interviewer: Uh-huh.
And do you often see involvement of like state employees, such as social workers or police officers or landlords for being a motivator for bringing people in.
Interviewee: Only if there’s a threat.
Interviewer: Is that relatively rare?
Interviewee: Um, no, well again, it depends on the source of the clientele.
So if I go over to [NAME]  and ask him about his clients in the housing authority office, he’s going to have a different experience than we do in the mental health clinic.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
And I know that we’ve reached the end of time that we got today, so I just want to close with one final question.
I would like to ask, you know, who you think are the important people that we talked to for part of this project clinically.
But the closing question is in your opinion, and we’ve touched on this a little bit, what do you think are the biggest unknowns in the world of hoarding disorder right now?
What are the biggest questions that we still don’t have answered?
Interviewee: Um, those are the ones that I mentioned at the very beginning.
To what extent is hoarding driven by very basic brain stem and/or cognitive elements?
And the rest of what we try to understand about it is that they just, uh, whoops, why am I getting the beep?
Ok, never mind.
The, uh, so we just have to understand that better in order to get it.
That’s going to put us on a much more biological level on this.
I think we also don’t have the geneticist that are telling us that there’s something going on there.
But I don’t think we have a clue what it is that is inherited and where it lies and so there’s a lot more we don’t get about that.
Interviewer: Right.
So those seem to be the biggest questions that’s kind of, uh…
Interviewee: There’s, there’s one other question and that is that while this problem is age old, so we know it is not due nearly to our current cultural context and we know it crosses cultures.
Although right now most of those cultures are western.
They have enough affluence within the culture to put people in and send money and buy stuff.
We have massive efforts to sell us things these days and to make us think that our value depends on what we own, and that’s a cultural problem.
And I do not know the extent to which if you were will be able to remove that.
People would not have the same degree of hoarding that we see now.Interviewer: Interesting.
That is an interesting question.
Ok. I really appreciate your time in talking with us today.
This will be extremely valuable for us and thank you so much for your work as well.
I think that I speak for both of us when I say that we have enjoyed reading what you written and published on this topic.
We’ve gained a lot from that.
Interviewee: Well…good…go ahead.
Interviewer: That was it.
Interviewee: Ok.
Well it was very nice to talk to you and good luck with your research.
Interviewer: Before I let you go, just really quick, to tap into your kind of expertise and your knowledge on hoarding research, if you were to like think of other people who you think that it’s absolutely vital that we talk to.
Could you think of anybody, or would you prefer that we email and ask you this question so you can think about it?
Interviewee: Well you probably already have a list of folks that you have either contacted or are going to be contacting.
Um, I’m sure I would hit upon many of those people.
If there is anybody that occurs to me beyond that, I would be glad to tell you.
You may or may not…Are you allowed to tell me who’s on the radar screen?
Interviewer: Um, I mean, I’m not actually sure if we are or not, but I think that the purpose of asking that question is to make sure that we are being comprehensive and that we…
Interviewee: So the one’s… I’ll just throw out the names of the people that I work most closely with across the country.
Um, you’ve got [NAME]  you have to because everything I’ve written is with him.
The um, [NAME]  at UNIVERSITY  is working on this problem from a more cognitive and community perspective.
[NAME]  is one of my doc students who is working with [NAME]  now.
She’s also at UNIVERSITY , and um, she’s former, she’s you know, well on her way to, she’s on the faculty.
[NAME] , I’m sure you’ve bumped into.
[NAME]  works on family aspects of hoarding, PHASSOM.
Um, ok, I’m walking around the table.
[NAME]  out in San Diego working on older adults with hoarding and treatment.
She’s got somebody she works with as well.
Of course she’s got [NAME]  at UNIVERSITY .
Uh, [NAME]  has done a good bit of clinical work on hoarding.
[NAME]  likewise, clinical work with people who hoard and their family members.
Um, [NAME] .
He is not a clinician, not a mental health clinician.
He’s the housing guy that I mentioned and um, is I think a very rare person who developed a hoarding treatment program through the Boston housing group.
Metropolitan Boston housing partnership with, they just changed their name and I forget what it is now, um Metro Boston housing, that’s it.
Um, and has had huge experience with hoarding in the context of housing situations but also works with it extensively so knows a lot of these people.
I’m sure there are more that I am forgetting.
Interviewer: Would it be helpful if we sent you an email?
Interviewee: Sure.
You can always shoot me an email, and if anybody else occurs to me, I may or may not remember which ones I named already, but you got those or something.
Close enough.Interviewer1: Thank you so much.
You have actually added to our list now just off the top of your head, so I really appreciate your effort in doing that.
Interviewee: Oh, there’s a couple more who occurred to me.
[NAME]  that’s with, he’s also out of San Diego.
And actually would you take a look when you’re in touch with [NAME] , he can give you the list of the names of the people who are involved in the hoarding special interest group at the International OCD Foundation, IOCDF, and that group tends to have several people in it that are more clinically based.
[NAME]  is one of them.
Uh, these are mental health clinicians.
Um, [NAME] .
Uh, I know there are others.
Well those are just popping into my head.
Interviewer2: Thank you.
Thank you so much for your time today.
Interviewee: Sure.
Much welcome.
Bye-bye now.
Interviewer1: Take care.