Interviewer2: Can you hear me?
Interviewer1: Hello?
yes
Interviewer2: Yes.
Ok cool.
So, I just merged the calls.
Uhm I’m just trying to pull up the consent forms just because I don’t have that.
So, give me a second.
Interviewer1: Ok I’m just heading back to the conference hotel for lunch so I’m just going to use my phone for the first five minutes and then when I get there I should be able to [inaudible 00:].
Interviewer2: Ok.
Interviewer1: I’m here I’m listening and if I…if you need something from me ill speak up, but I just don’t want to get those [inaudible 00:].
Interviewer2: Ok sounds good.
Interviewer1: And the wind and stuff ok?
Interviewer2: Alright cool
Interviewer1: Cool.
Talk to you… I’ll let you know… I’ll let you know when I’m unmuted.
Ok bye.
Interviewer2: Ok.
I’m going to get her on the phone here in a minute.
Interviewer1: Yeah, I’ll be here.
I’m listening.
Interviewer2: Alright cool.
Bye.
Interviewer2: Alright sorry about that.
I’ve added my colleague to the other line, Interviewer 1 Henderson.
She’s not going to be speaking for a few minutes because she realized that she’s in a really noisy area.
And so, she’s trying to get to a place where she can, uh, minimize some of that background noise… [inaudible 00:].
Interviewee: Sure thing.
Interviewer2: Uhm in the meantime, if you’d like to get started, the first thing I’d like to do is go through a…an informed consent that we have with you.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer2: Would that be alright?
Interviewee: Sure
Interviewer2: Ok.
So, you’re volunteering to participate in a research projected conducted by [NAME]  from the UNIVERSITY .
The aim of the study is to better understand the ways that researchers and clinicians think about hoarding disorder.
You’ll be one of approximately thirty people being interviewed for this research.
Your participation is volunteer, you will not be paid for your participation
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer2: There is no direct benefit to you, and you may withdraw or discontinue at any time.
If you decline to participate in this study, no one will be told.
Uh… if you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview session, you have the right to decline to answer any question or end the interview.
The interview will last approximately 60 minutes, and we will take some notes during the interview as well.
And all your record of the interview will be…uh and subsequent dialogue, will be made.
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer2: If you don’t want to be recorded, you will not be able to participate in this study.
The recording will be transcribed, and all information that could identify you will be removed from that transcription.
Then, audio recording will be destroyed.
Uh… researchers, myself and Interviewer 1 will not identify you by name in any reports using information from this interview, and your confidentiality will remain secure.
Subsequent use of records and data will be subject to standard data use policies which protect anonymity of individuals and institutions.
This precaution will prevent your individual comments from having any negative repercussions.
Do you have any questions about any of that?
Interviewee: Uh nope!Interviewer: Ok. Ok, excellent.
Thank you so much for your answers to those prompts.
Now kind of to move into the next section of the interview, would you mind giving us a little bit about your background related to hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Sure.
So, my post B.A. work was in- with [NAME]  and [NAME]  and [NAME]  doing some of the early research on separating O.C.D from Hoarding.
So, I worked- so, that was kind of my initial training on how to assess hoarding and how to go out to homes.
I worked specifically on an MRI project, primarily an [INAUDIBLE], and for that project I did a lot of interview assessments of hoarding to varying other mental health problems; tasks where we would have folks choose, let’s see- they would bring paper items from home and we would scan them, and while they were in the MRI they would choose whether to keep the items or not, or we would shred it while they were in the MRI if they chose to discard it.
And then, you know, have various tasks related to categorization, related to organizing memory, different stuff like that.
Let’s see, and then household assessments of hoarding and discarding tasks and shopping and non-shopping trips, and then-- So that was all before graduate school, and then in graduate school I did some research on perceived deficits of hoarding for my masters and some other smaller projects related to hoarding.
And then since I’ve been in post-back and since I’ve been licensed, I have patients that I see with hoarding, and I work with another-someone in Louisiana that specializes in hoarding as well.
Interviewer: Ok excellent.
So, could you talk to us about-- Well what are some of the most important features of hoarding disorder?
You know, what are the most important differences between normal saving behavior, like collecting or something like that, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well that they don’t actually have their stuff on display.
They don’t really use their items in the way that they’re intended.
So, like they may have all sorts of crafting supplies, but then not actually have any place or time to set aside that they use them.
And so, it’s usually kind of too much of the materials that they would actually use in a reasonable time-- And like not…yeah, basically that-- Or not having space for it.
Interviewer: Are there other really standout features that define hoarding disorder, clinically?
Interviewee: Uhm standout features, I mean certainly the amount of clutter is going to be-- Like some, like-- Once in a while people will think that they have a bad problem and its really not that cluttered.
So usually how they describe [INAUDIBLE] hoarding; or if you have home visits and are able to see the mount of clutter; certainly, if they have damage-- Like here there’s a lot more issues with termite damage that will come up, or infestation from bugs, things like that.
Certainly, if they have financial problems from it, we’ll indicate if it’s a problem.Interviewer: Ok. Are there certain kinds of people that are more likely to be hoarders: older or younger, different races, socioeconomic backgrounds, rural versus urban?
Interviewee: Sure-- Uhm I mean so the actual-- The actual amount of clutter usually takes a while to accumulate.
And so that once their symptoms are really quite bad- that their- like the clutter itself, then they’re usually older.
But they’ll have the patterns of difficulty discarding or excessive acquisition or either purchasing or passive acquisition of stuff from an early age.
So, it’s more like the problem doesn’t become as interfering until they’re older, but they have it, I would say, more lifetime.
And then you said other things… I mean I’m not, I mean the thing is that most of the research is going to be with Caucasian folks.
It seems like the gender, although more people will come in presenting that are women, its seems like the research is both for women and men, at a little bit more equal numbers I believe.
And I’m not sure really about, yeah, I’m not real sure about race beyond that more research is going to be done with more white folks.
But the socioeconomic stuff, certainly part of the issue is that their hoarding is often going to result in money spent that would ordinarily be spent.
So, they could have financial difficulties because of the hoarding, but I don’t know that I would argue that the financial problems came first.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. Can you think of a specific case or cases that you can remember that were challenging to diagnose because they were on the border between pathological and nonpathological behavior?
And how you were able to make that distinction?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I mean I remember one case from when I was pretty young and in some of the research- like [INAUDIBLE]- that did the in-office assessments, and the person’s report of their hoarding was pretty severe… even how they were describing when we would go room by room, and then when I went out to their home it wasn’t really all that bad.
The actual clutter itself, it was quite minimal in comparison.
So that person was like more on the cusp, but she made it seem like it was, you know, quite severe.
So, I mean, in that case the in-home assessment was pretty helpful.
Interviewer: Ok.
Kind of in a similar vein, have there been times when people have described things as being very mild, to the point where it’s not an issue and then you do the visit and find that things are much worse?
Interviewee: Usually, let’s see, I think that there have certainly been cases like that, but a lot of the times I don’t end up being able to do in-home visits anymore; that’s because of insurance issues or things like that, or if they live quite a distance.
And so-- But yeah you know-- I’ve definitely gone to places where it’s been a lot harder to travel through, to squeeze through anywhere.
But I mean, especially when I was younger, I could certainly still do it, but I think it was a lot worse.
And sometimes there was, I remember there was concern, where DCF had gotten called in and they-- So I anticipated it would ultimately be bad, but the person was trying to minimize it, I think out of concern about her DCF case.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. So next section of the interview I want to talk to you a little about the DSM-5 criteria for hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Mhm.Interviewer: Have you had to apply this criterion with the intent of diagnosing someone with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uhm yes.
Interviewer: Ok.
Are there things about the DSM-5 criteria that are sometimes challenging, you know, elements that you regard as difficult to apply, or might apply differently to different clinicians, things to do with language perhaps?
Interviewee: Uhm I don’t have it-- I don’t have the language right in front of me, but because I think that that was how I was trained, was with what ultimately ended up being the DSM-5 criteria, or pretty close to it, I generally just, I guess like it in comparison to the DSM-4.
I feel like it’s a lot more clear to be able to diagnose, so I don’t have any big concerns about it.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. So next we want to ask you some questions about the way that you think about specific things related to the DSM-5 criteria.
So, I’m going to read you a phrase that we have from the criteria, and then I want to know a little bit more about your thought process as you apply two different patients.
So, one of the phrases is “persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions, regardless of their actual value.”
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer: So, with that, how do you go about determining value?
What makes the value judgement of an individual with hoarding disorder as inappropriate?
Interviewee: Sure, well I mean, there are some cases that are very clear cut-- If it’s actually like garbage or, you know, food waste or things like that.
Obviously, it’s much more clear cut and there are many items that are pretty inexpensive, like you know, that are less than a few dollars or less than a dollar that they have a bunch of-- I think that would be lower value, things that most people would probably discard unless they had an immediate plan for it, like things like toilet paper rolls or stuff like that-- Most people are going to get rid of, unless they have a certain art project that they’re going to use it for in the next couple of months or something.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: So yeah, I mean mostly value.
I think most people would probably agree that things are of a lower value like with under a few dollars or less than dollar, ideally.
Interviewer: And so that value, to you, kind of more means a monetary value as opposed to emotional or aesthetic value?
Interviewee: Sure.
I mean the emotional or aesthetic value-- Let’s say it’s greeting cards or something, where it’s from someone who is very much in their life and, you know, they have every expectation that they will continue to receive cards from them.
I mean, most people might save a special card or two, but not every card that they’ve gotten from the person.
So that has a little bit more of when there’s a sentimental value.
How many items are you keeping?
Do you need to keep every single one versus, you know, one or two things that remind you of the person?
Interviewer: Ok.
So, at that point it’s not necessarily the inappropriate value judgement, so much as the amount that they have of that item?
Interviewee: Yeah.Interviewer: Ok. So, the next phrase that we have for you is “the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.”
So how much stuff counts as cluttered space?
Interviewee: Sure.
So, I would say if it can’t be removed from the space in a few minutes then, like I mean, to at least be relocated to another space.
So, if there’s a bunch of stuff on a coffee table it might take them… it might take a normal person, I don’t know, 20 or 30 minutes to actually sort through everything and like get- put everything in its complete proper place; but it would probably only take two or three minutes for them to move it to another location-- Whereas, or a minute to move it to another location if they didn’t have the opportunity to sort through all of -- Whereas someone who’s hoarding if they-- The volume of it would be a lot more, that it would take more time to even just move it even without sorting through it.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: So that, I guess, is part of it.
Interviewer: Ok.
Does home-size play into this at all?
Interviewee: Uhm, sure.
I mean, I mean-- Well yes, yes to an extent.
So, like certainly we should be generally living in a space that-- We should be kind of modifying the amount of stuff that we have to fit in the space that we have.
However, obviously people, you know, need bigger houses at points.
So probably, if you think about, I don’t know, each person having a certain amount of personal-- A certain number, I guess, rooms per person or something, is a reasonable estimate for what the amount of space is appropriate.
I don’t know exactly, but say a bedroom, or so, per person would probably be appropriate for the amount of space that they might utilize.
When it’s a three-bedroom house and its just for one person, that’s probably a little too much unnecessary space-- That they’re not keeping their possessions down.
CROSS_TALK
Interviewee: Usually most people have a storage area of some sort.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Yeah.
So, for healthy individuals there is some degree of variance of the free space that they like in their home.
So, for example…
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: Some people might want to have a clear desk while others prefer to have things out and ready to use on the desk.
Do you think hoarding disorder could be just an extension of this variance that surpasses a socially acceptable threshold?
Interviewee: Well but it’s no longer productive.
Like with your example, then people would be able to actively- to easily access their things on their desk to use them.
But with someone with hoarding it’s going to be a lot more difficult to actually find the item that they are looking for.Interviewer2: Ok. Ok. Uhm the next kind of prompt that we have-- So in the DSM-5 its written “This difficulty is due to perceived need to save items and distress associated with discarding them.”
So how do you make a determination of how much distress is normal or abnormal?
Interviewee: Uhm lets see-- Probably based on uhm-- I mean most things that we do in any area of the DSM, we have to do based on kind of like a scale of, you know, no distress at all to extreme distress.
And so, it is subjective, of course, to an extent.
But if someone says that “well it’s not really difficult for me, it just causes me a little bit of anxiety or a little bit of sadness or a little bit of distress, but it goes away pretty quickly,” then you know, that’s not, you know, that’s not too worrisome.
But if it’s that they imagine that the distress that they would experience would be quite high and they don’t wanna, you know, try that out at all- that that would be more problematic.
Interviewer1: Uhm just to jump in—uh sorry Interviewer 2-- Just as a follow up to that, sorry-- Also I’m still here, I’m just listening along.
Uhm the next part of our interview is going to turn to kind of the question of insight in hoarding disorder; and I kind of wanted to follow up on what you just said to see how that relates to insight.
Like, do patients who have less insight about their disorder sometimes have trouble expressing their distress?
Or do you have trouble measuring it in those cases?
Or is the distress always apparent, as a feature regardless of insight?
Interviewee: Uhm I think the distress is usually pretty apparent as a feature, like in terms of how bothersome it is for them to actually get rid of something.
The insight part, I think, comes more along with like ‘How much does it actually interfere with their lives?’ and ‘How much does it, as a whole, give them the distress having it as a problem?’ Whereas the momentary distress that comes up while discarding is, um I think, is fairly apparent for most people.
Interviewer1: Ok.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Uh so kind of leading into that next section, we wanted to talk a little bit about insight in hoarding disorder so, how do you define insight?
Interviewee: Well the awareness that someone has into some sort of problematic behavior, I guess.
Uhm yeah--Their just general awareness of how much something is problematic and causes them kind of objective- objective problems in their functioning, yeah.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Interviewee: And usually that’s like, you know, being objective in comparison to someone else’s point of view.Interviewer2: Great.
So, to follow up on that, do you mean awareness of the behavior as the behavior?
Or awareness as an unusual behavior?
Or awareness of the behavior as an unusual behavior that also causes problems for them?
Or both?
Interviewee: Uhm I think it could be both.
I mean, I think that they-- That someone with very poor insight would be on that scale, not even realizing that it would be a problem for everyone or anyone, thinking that “oh basically everyone saves this much stuff” or “everyone has difficulty throwing things out.”
But for people that are slightly more insightful, they would probably recognize that its still problematic, that it still causes them difficulty, like it doesn’t usually cause-- Sorry I’m getting distracted-- Uhm that basically, that they realize that not everyone else does it, but that they don’t think its really that bad or that they don’t see why everyone cares about it so much… that they have a problem.
Interviewer1: Sure, ok.
Thanks.
Interviewer2: Ok.
So, in the literature there’s been kind of a breakdown of the concept of insight and hoarding and the different constructs that may be present more for different individuals.
So, some of those constructs include “defensiveness, anosognosia- or that lack of ability to perceive your illness as reducing your quality of life, overvalued ideations, abnormal beliefs in the value of items, and indifference.”
Do you feel in your experience that any of these factors are more prevalent or more problematic in the individuals you work with, with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uhm can you repeat them?
Interviewer2: Yeah so, “defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideations, and indifference” have been some of the ones sited in the literature as kind of comprised in that insight.
Interviewee: Sure.
Uhm I mean I think that they’re all certainly relevant.
The most ones that I’ve probably seen the most uhm-- I think less so, indifference.
Some-- I think the anosognosia and the overvalued ideation are probably more common with what I see clinically.
But some people definitely have defensiveness; uhm I don’t usually see a whole lot of defensiveness with my actual clients because by that point, they’ve at least are willing to come in.
It might be defensiveness that like a family member discusses when they call to see, but usually those people wouldn’t necessarily make it into treatment with me.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok. And how do you go about explaining hoarding disorder-- How would you, to a patient with low insight?
Interviewee: Uhm really try to hammer home the impairment that they have.
So, the way that they can actually identify as the reasons that they would actually want to reduce the clutter or want to reduce, you know, their acquiring or other things.
Uhm like if their family member won’t bring over, won’t go over, bring their kids over, or if their clutter is preventing them from getting needed repairs or their-- You know the really, kind of- staying on those kinds of features that are really impairing their lives.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And kind of hitting it from that angle, have you found, in your experience, helps patients to be able to gain insight, making that connection to the consequences?
Interviewee: Uhm yeah.
I think for most of them, they get- they have more insight when thinking about the consequences that are tied in with it.Interviewer: Ok, are there things that might cause a patient to fail to gain insight?
Interviewee: Uhm, if they feel like you’re- so some people really don’t like the label of hoarding.
And so sometimes that can cause problems if they have more of an issue with the concept in general.
Or not seeing that-- Thinking that you’re calling- saying they have a problem that looks like the very worst of what hoarding can look like, that can cause issues.
Then if they are not able to kind of see that their problem doesn’t have to look exactly like everyone else’s problems- that they may be more resistant, I guess, into those concerns.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. For the next section, we want to talk about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder might have for their behaviors.
So we want you to think through a couple of the questions that we have from the Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale, and in your experience, think about how your patients might respond to these questions.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer: So, the first one that we have is What do you think has caused you to have these behaviors?
Do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?
Interviewee: Uhm, and just like, freely what their answer would be, or do you have the answers?
Interviewer: No.
What you think and- yeah.
Interviewee: Uhm I think that some people would definitely recognize that it’s a little bit of a biological trait, in that their family members have had issues, even if they-- I think they recognize that it’s not necessarily just that they had-- They were in their surroundings growing up, but that they, and like, they have learned it from them, but also that some of its inherited.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. So if they’ve been in their environment, they’re more likely to understand that its biological, but if not they may not make that connection?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I mean, if they don’t have any family members, uhm then the genetics-- The biological component may be harder for them to really have that insight over.
They may recognize that, at least that they struggle emotionally with feeling negative emotions, and that may be a reason why they have the problem like in that-- That that being more like a general problem than necessarily a hoarding-specific one, with the difficulty with negative emotions.
Interviewer: Ok so if it wasn’t a biological cause, they might have more of a psychological reason and understanding of their problem.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: Uh the next question that we wanted to ask you how patients might respond is How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding them?
Interviewee: Uhm, I don’t feel like there’s been a lot of people who have really felt like something horrible would happen besides-- I would say the horrible thing would be that they would feel unhappy, that they would feel uncomfortable.
Uhm more so than some other catastrophic outcome would come up from it.Interviewer: Ok. Ok. Uh so the last kind of full questions that we want to ask are a little bit of a follow up from the Free Listing Prompts that we gave you initially.
So, we talked about some of the explanations that people might have for hoarding things, so sentimental reasons or thinking that it needs to go to the right person or having some responsibility for the items.
Do you feel that these explanations are just post hoc reasons to justify a pathological need?
Interviewee: Hmm, uhm that they’ve come up with or that researchers have come up with?
Interviewer: Uh.
Interviewee: For both, I guess?
Interviewer: I guess both, because I would say that the researchers have come up with these from talking to-
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer: -patients.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Uhm, I don’t think its just a post hoc assessment or way to explain away just a general need.
I feel like more people would just explain that they also just feel a need and they don’t know how to explain it; because that will come up in other disorders, where sometimes-- Say people with social anxiety, you know, sometimes they can’t really articulate what they’re worried about, but they feel a lot of fear and they can articulate that, but not what the consequence might be or, you know, the reason they they’re afraid, and same with OCD-- For some people they’re able to articulate the reason but not everyone has a specific reason, they just feel uncomfortable.
So, I feel like hoarders would probably also tell you if there was just some unexplainable need that they had to keep things.
I think that they probably legitimately do have those concerns that have been talked about in the literature.
Interviewer: Ok.
Because I, at least in my reading, I haven’t come across individuals with hoarding disorder calling it that- calling it a pathological need.
Would you say that you’ve experienced or come into contact with individuals who have described it that way?
Interviewee: No, and that’s why I’m saying I think that would’ve already come up- like patients would have already talked about that on their own.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Ok, so kind of to follow up on that, do you feel that cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions during this day-and-age, I guess, play any role in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uhm, hm.
Can you repeat that?Interviewer: Do you think that cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions play any role in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uhm, I mean, probably to an extent.
Probably to an extent that there’s a little bit more of that sense of a need to acquire things.
But, I mean, I also feel like this-- Even, I mean, I also feel like a lot of the stuff that people do save or, you know, passively acquire, aren’t necessarily high-price kind of things that are really, I mean-- I think it can, with the variety of things that are out there, say every different possible kind of pen that someone could buy-- With there being a lot of unique kind of things that people could find, that maybe it increases it a little bit; but, at the same time, I think a lot of people with hoarding are more apt to go after some sort of really special thing, which usually means some sort of older thing rather than a newer thing, uhm, like a vintage kind of thing rather than a brand- lots of brand new stuff.
So, I don’t know how much it really causes a big issue.
But, I mean, I guess certainly, in terms of people’s abilities to acquire new things, with there being stores everywhere and the ability to buy things online and on TV or things like that, certainly can increase.
But, not everyone has that issue with actually acquiring new things that they are paying for, you know, they- a lot of people just passively acquire things.
Interviewer: Ok.
So those that do may experience an increased ability to purchase, but, in terms of the saving, it’s not really the same type of things that are being advertised and associated with value that people with hoarding disorder seem to be collecting.
Interviewee: Right, right.
Interviewer: Ok.
Uh so now you know, we had mentioned in one of the Free Listing Prompts reasons that people might come in for treatment and you mentioned family distress, and financial issues, and trouble with local authorities, so do you feel like their preventing for treatment is normally self-motivated or by others?
Interviewee: A lot of the times its motivated by others.
They might get to a point where they recognize that they can’t do it on their own and then ultimately, they have some motivation in it as well.
I’ve definitely had a lot of folks who have come in, mostly because their family members have really urged them to do so.
They don’t really stay if they are not really willing to do the work.
Interviewer: Yeah.
So how long has the hoarding behavior typically been going on before you see patients?
Interviewee: Usually for at least a couple of decades.
Interviewer: Wow.
Interviewee: But not necessarily to that extent where its always been that severe, like the actual clutter.
The collecting [INAUDIBLE], you know, and the-- Some clutter that’s contained by parents and things like that, and some of the behaviors are present when they’re young; but they’re not necessarily so problematic in other people’s eyes that they’re going to be coming in for treatment or going to be bugged about how bad it is.Interviewer: Ok. And how aware are typical patients that they have hoarding disorder when you first see them?
And how did that, kind of, change over time?
Interviewee: So, in terms of the actual-- I’d say both with treatment and in research, people are at least somewhat aware that its problematic and that that’s what it is.
That when they read about it or when its explained to them, they kind of agree that “oh yeah, this makes sense, that is just what it’s like for me.”
So yeah, they probably-- But some people definitely don’t really totally connect with it at first.
Interviewer: So, we talked a little bit about the role that family and friends play in bringing in people for treatment sometimes, or kind of triggering that drive to seek help.
Are there specific relatives that are more often involved than others, in your experience?
Interviewee: Often times, adult children or-- Like usually spouses don’t seem to be so- well like, the spouses often are either not that bothered by it or have their own kind of problems with it, to some extent.
And its oftentimes close family members, like a sibling or a child- usually once they’re an adult, are the ones I’d say are most common; because most other family members you can more easily keep at bay, where they’re not coming into their house, necessarily.
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah.
That makes sense.
And so, do you feel that like these family members, you said often the adult children, what role do you think they play in arriving at that diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
What maybe that you confer with initially to learn the extent of things or…
Interviewee: Uhm, you know often times if someone- especially if someone isn’t totally on board with it, then they’re coming in with someone else- with a family member perhaps, or the family member might call and make the initial inquiries.
And so, the children are often going to be the ones who do that.
And sometimes, you know, people just want to know how they talk to their parent or how do they-- Once in a while it will be the parents of the hoarder, but that’s not as common especially cause their parents are likely- you know, by the time it gets really bad, the parents may not even be living anymore depending uhm…
Interviewer: Yeah.
But it seems like the social surrounding of the individual does play a really strong role in either coming in for treatment or the driver behind them seeking help.
So, it does seem like a fairly important part of arriving at this diagnosis for the individual or beginning treatment for an individual.
Interviewee: Right, yeah.Interviewer: Ok. Ok. Uh well, that is just about all the questions that we have for you.
The last thing that we wanted was, if you could tell us, you know, what do you think are some of the biggest things that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uh let’s see, I mean I think- I mean I think some of the- I think the research-- I know, I know that the research that you often are able to do in a graduate program, or something like that, with more subclinical folks-- That was more of an issue of how do you identify people when they’re earlier on?
When they have some of the difficulties, but they don’t yet have the full fledge clutter problem.
Then, how can you convince them-- Because then they’re kind of not likely to have so much of that interference at that point.
So how do you convince them that its worthy of their time to try and nip it in the bud, rather than wait until it gets much worse?
Interviewer: Ok.
Yeah, no definitely.
Interviewee: And I guess if there’s other ways to identify people earlier on and to be shorter interventions, things like that, with college students or younger-- I mean with the college students and younger, its largely that their parents are containing their stuff, or their size of their dorm room is containing their stuff.
And so, I guess maybe discussing it earlier in life with parents who have kids who are pack rats, or who that they describe as pack rats, or who have always had really messy rooms and have difficulty deciding which stuffed animals to get rid of, or things like that.
Interviewer: Yeah ok.
Well thank you so much for agreeing to talk with us.
I think we definitely got a lot of good insight from you, and we appreciate you taking time out of your day to help us out with this project.
Interviewee: Yup, no problem.
Good Luck with it.
Interviewer: Yeah, just right before you go, are there any other people that you think its important that we talk to as part of this project that you might want to give us?
Interviewee: Uhm, yeah, I mean well I forwarded it to-- Well I don’t really know who is all going to be available-- I don’t know how much-- Most of the people that I know of, are the ones that are probably going to have some similar thoughts or that are from the same kind of group of people; but [NAME]  or [NAME]  might have some opinions.
The woman that I work with, [NAME] , she does a lot of stuff with children of hoarders.
But I don’t know how available those folks are either.
Interviewer: Ok.
Alright.
Thank you.
If we needed to, do you think you would be able to- would it be alright if we emailed you for those names for email addresses-
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: - so that we’d be able to get in touch with them?
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: Ok.
Alright.
Thank you so much, again, and we really appreciate it.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Interviewee: You’re welcome.
Take care.
Interviewer: Aright.
Bye.