Interviewer1: I think, the call might have gotten dropped. I’m not sure what happened.
Interviewer2: Yeah, uh, you want to try again?
Interviewer1: Yeah, I’m going to get back. I’m going to get her on the line now.
Interviewer2: Okay, you think it was my end or your end? Should I like be doing something different to prevent that from happening again?
Interviewer1: NAME think that something might have happened and the the call got dropped.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, no worries you guys just went super silent .
Interviewer1:  um, how much of that--
Interviewee: I kept talking though .
Interviewer2: Oh good, I love that. Um, so, so, actually right when you handed the podium over to, to, NAME is, is, where I lost you.
Interviewer1: Okay, well that’s perfect. I think, that NAME offered a pretty good overview of what we're doing, how the project kinda got started, and, and, what the goals are. Do you have any questions for us?
Interviewee: No, that sounds um, that sounds really great NAME. You’re not a medical anthropologist though right?
Interviewer1: No, so I'm actually in the neuroscience department, and where my side of things kind of comes in is that I’m going to be working on a project related to uh psychophysiology of hoarding disorder, and so studying a couple of different uh ERP waveforms, and I think, eventually um, I’d like to look at some of those wave forms in the context of the the findings that we have with our hoarding participants, so if there are differences in um specific subgroups based on um motivations for hoarding that they have or based on degree of insight or construct of insight that more prevalent in certain subgroups, and see if that responds to differences in uh different waveforms different ERP waveforms.
Interviewee: Oh yeah, very interesting. Okay, cool, yeah, yeah, so this is great um is so when I you know when I saw it on when NAME sent out the the note and, then also I think NAME and I've been threatening to collaborate for, for, a couple of years now. Uh, this seem like a great, a great, you know potential project but, you know, it also sounds like you guys are pretty far along much further along than um I, I, have been in, in, my thinking of such a project and because I, I, don’t have um, I, I, don’t have uh people power to kind of push this forward, so uh, everybody’s busy doing other things. So yeah, I mean I where my thinking was um, it I'm very curious about there’s what like five groups that really understand hoarding. Um, maybe that’s even being a little generous NAME, NAME, NAME, and, NAME, and then me, and there’s like the smaller world of IOCDF that knows a little bit more about hoarding, but you know, certainly doesn’t have an appreciation for it as, as, kind of as deeply as we do, and then beyond that if people have heard of it they watch the show.
Interviewer2: Yeah.Interviewee: Which is horrible . Um, so I do always have this question of were are these patients ending up?
Um, who’s actually asking about these symptoms?
If you don’t ask it the chances are the patients aren’t going to tell you. Um, so once we know that they are hoarding patients obviously that provides a whole different context for how we may be interpreting what other ailments they have um, let alone having them attending treatment for, for, the hoarding specifically. Um, so yeah so that’s what I've been wanting to think about you know, being able to survey treatment providers um of different disciplines right. I think, that’s what going the really important piece um, because certainly because the vast majority of your garden variety hoarding patients aren’t going to find their way to, to, the these very specialized programs. Um, so yeah, so that’s where I'm at.
Interviewer2: Mhm yeah, so that a really interesting kind of idea. So NAME and I had started theses interviews with this really core group of experts, and as he kind of put it there not like a huge intellectual community right now of people who are really plugged in to you know, what it means to have hoarding disorder. So we started with those people, and then we’ve been talking recently about whether or not we want to get people who are more on the periphery. Um, last time we had talked about this we had um mentioned maybe just doing interviews with clinicians who had just seen a hoarders or two who were not um, you know, by any means specializing in this, and to see how there understanding is different, how they go through the process of diagnosing someone with hoarding disorder, and compare that with the people who were really at the center of what’s happening, and we’ve also talked even about doing interviews with people who encounter people with this disorder through like housing services or um, you know, task force task forces um surrounding how this just to see again. Um, and you’ll see in our interview we haven’t so far asked about popular perceptions of hoarding disorder mostly because we’ve been interviewing people who are experts in it, but it is something we are interested in kind of understanding what is out there and what is the you know, the popular understating influencing how people are coming in for treatment and how their understanding what’s happening in their own behavior. Um, yeah, sorry. I don’t know if you want to add to that NAME?
Interviewer1: Yeah, no. I just, I agree, I think that is something definitely thought about in kind of envisioning the scope of our project, and I think probably similar you, you, NAME of the main limiting factor for us would be time and, and, man power to conduct the interviews and all of that.
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah, that that really interesting. So the way I mean I think, that the uh like I I'm not a qualitative researcher so um, so that the techniques and methods for that are pretty fuzzy for me, but I have a really under deep appreciation for them um, in part because I don’t know if you’ve already spoke with NAME?
Interviewer2: No.
Interviewer1: No we have not.Interviewee: Oh okay, well NAME is a social work. Um, she works at the unit- social work PHD and works at the UNIVERSITY um, and she does a lot of qualitative work and um, and, and, I think, its uh provides such a richer nuanced kind of perspective um, that then from there you can go on to use that knowledge that, that, rich data that you gather to develop something that is a little more quantitative but tis more kind of informed quantitative. Right, um, it's not just whatever I'm envisioning and coming up with. Um, so, so, initially what I have been thinking about it's that it would be interesting to kind of even just think about a case sample of uh, you know, yes the experts but then you know like a first year medical resident would be really interesting person to kind of think through ‘have you heard of hoarding?’, ‘is that something you would think about asking about?’, um, ‘why do you think that would matter?’. You know, like all that type of stuff. Um, you know, somebody who's going into social work who have not had exposure to hoarding which is ninety percent of social workers out there just because it's not taught in the curriculum. Uh you know, your average kind of researched based clinical psychologist um, you know, same thing on that end um, and then from there thinking though like where are our gaps is it dissemination about information about hoarding?
Um, but then also how could that impact the patients care and patient health care seeking behavior. I guess, um yeah so that just kind of some of my initial thoughts, so maybe we can circle back um after the interview. What do you guys think?
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewer2: Um, just to kind of build off that before we move into the interview, and I agree I think, that we have a lot of interest in common it would be interesting to me to think about. I had not even thought about it until just now using our interviews to develop a survey and then kind of doing a wider survey, but that’s uh, that could be that could be a productive use of our data in the future once were done with the interviews to kind of say okay what do we want to ask about un in the survey and how do we want to phrase questions. That might be something to talk about also um, but yeah, let's circle back to it after you’ve heard our interview and got a chance to talk though kind of more and see what kind of information were gathering.
Interviewee: Okay, that sounds great.Interviewer1: Yeah, so um, just to go ahead and get started. We want we have a little informed consent that we just like to uh read to you before we get started with the actual interview. So you’re volunteering to participate in a research project conducted by NAME at UNIVERSITY. Um, you’re going to be one of about thirty or so people participating in the research your participation is voluntary um, and there are no direct benefit to you in participating. The biggest risk in participating is a violation of confidentiality you may withdraw or discontinue participation at any time without penalty, and if you declined to participate in the study no one will be told. Um, if you feel uncomfortable during the interview session you have the right to decline to answer any question at all or end the interview. Uh, the interview will last about sixty minutes and notes will be taken and an audio recording and dialog a subsequent transcription of the dialog will be made. If you don’t want to be recorded you will not be able to participate in the study. Um, all information that could identify you in the transcription will be removed and the audio recording will be destroyed. After transcription occurs uh, the researchers will not identify you by name in any reports, use any information obtained from this interview, and your confidentiality as a participant will remain secure. Um, these precautions will prevent your comments from having any negative reproductions on you.
Do you have any questions about that at this time?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer2: And then the second part of the interview is very free form and will just be a conversation. I probably should have explained that to you before we got started, but um, yeah so we’ll do one more this and then we'll move on and get to talk in a little more detail about all of this. I'm really excited to hear what you're about to say. I don’t know, uh just because you’ve already kind of jumped into the issues that we really want to hit on.
Interviewee: Yeah, like I said I'm really not, not, doing your lists very well i'll be better with this next one .
Interviewer2: That’s okay, that’s okay.
Interviewer1: Um, before we go to the last one is there anything else you wanted to add to, to, ways that a person could identify someone. You know, you mentioned the clutter, the strong attachment to objects, and extreme disorganization, and then um a sense of optimism or potential that may or may not be present.
Interviewee: Once again that one I wouldn’t. I would not put on a diagnostic list. It's just something that I think about with these patients a lot. So the other thing is also like a squishy thing, and it has to do with the way they talk so there’s that [INAUDIBLE] that not quite as severe. Its not at all as severe as you would see with someone with psychosis, but you know, they fact that everything takes longer with these patients including having them complete a structured interview um is interesting it’s not diagnostic, but it's something that is very salient to me about these patients.
Interviewer1: Mhm, yeah.Interviewee: Yeah, you know, we intentionally made this list to not be one of the diagnostic criteria for hoarding disorder because it's not a quiz you know, so I guess what were what we are trying to get at with this question is exactly that like what do you how would you really know if you knew about hoarding disorder what would it look like. So um, it might be appropriate to include it on the list even though it's technically not a diagnostic criteria, and you know, we have.
Interviewee: Yeah [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer2: Anecdotally we’ve heard that from other providers as well.
Interviewer1: Mhm.
Interviewer2: Those exact features.
Interviewee: Yeah, and you know the other piece I would also say is that um these patients like in some ways they also have a little more of a feeling like somebody with a personality disorder, and I don’t, I don’t, mean that in like a negative kind of stigma way that people sometimes take that. What I mean is there is just to something about its really unique about these patients is that whole issue of wanting and maintaining control um, and, and, that’s where you know, I joke we do we run groups down here and more as a service to the community because there’s nobody else who provides treatment for hoarding in CITY, and um, and just because I’m I don’t have that much personnel down here, and so I I've trained some of our senior undergraduate students to help kind of facilitate these groups, and hoarding patients love them, and I always joke about the fact that they love them more than they love talking to me talking to be the quote on quote hoarding expert um, and theses this aspect where they feel like their contributing to that students educations, and that then directly feeds back to their sense of their own value, and then they are more invested in that versus.
Interviewer2: That’s interesting input.
Interviewee: If you know we have some of and in fact I think, the undergrads do better that some of my graduate students especially the graduate students who come from having done like a social anxiety group or even like a OCD group where you know, its much more kind of didactic. Where it's like ‘well today were going to be doing our exposure and this is how exposures work now let’s design your exposure and let’s go do it’ and the patients like ‘okay’  you know?
Um, and with hoarding it's more like you know, if they use that style you just get a bunch of patients that are just like sticking their feet in the mud and like ‘yeah I don’t know about this’, but then if you make it feel like it's part of their idea or you know, make them feel like they were really part of contributing to these patients training um, then they do better with that. Also not an easy list response I'm sorry.
Interviewer2:  No, its okay. Its very interesting.
Interviewee: I'm bad at listing .
Interviewer2: Go ahead. Let's just get through your last prompt, and then I'm really looking forward to the rest of the interview because I have so many questions but don’t want to derail you.Interviewer1: So the last list prompt that we had was can you list reasons people might seek treatment for hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: So why they might not why they might not?
Interviewer1: Why they might.
Interviewee: Uhuh, well okay, so I mean the obvious one would be because their forced to by some outside entities and I think that can be very concrete. You may be evicted, um your landlord is making you do this, um you just discovered half of your floor has been eaten away by termites and you have to have they house fumigated and you can’t because your stuff is in there, so really concrete serious things. All the was to subtle things um, kind of uh carrots if you will like ‘my daughter said she wont let me play with the grandkids anymore’ um, or you know, I, I, have a new boyfriend and I'm embarrassed to like bring him to my house. So these theses external um, you know, reinforces. Again I think they range from really kind of concrete severe um things that could happen but then they range to more subtle features as well. Um those are I think, they main reasons I think that people come in but then there are other ones too like ‘I'm worried what will happen to my stuff when I die’. That’s another reason I think that people come in um, and I think those are kind of the main reasons.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Interviewer2: Okay.
Interviewer1: So with that we can get started with the interview, and kind of the first thing we like to as everyone is uh, what’s your background related to hoarding disorder and what’s your educational background and your past?Interviewee: Yeah, so, so, I, I, fell into hoarding when I was actually before I went to graduate school. So I was biochemistry major as an undergrad and I was headed to medical school to go into psychiatry, and then like my senior year I, I, in the spring of my senior year I was like ‘I don’t I don’t think I want to go to medical school’, so I took some time off and worked in a lab for the NIH with a guy by the name of NAME. Um, NAME has since passed away but he was one of he’s a real great in the OCD world um, you know, like NAME, and um NAME, and NAME, and, and, a ton of people that their post-doc training with NAME, and so you know, he had a focus on looking at the serotonin transporter gene so there was a genetics lab kind of more neuroscience slash genetics portion and then they also did family studies of patients with OCD um, but I kind of got interested in the OCD portion even though I was there to do more of the animal studies with uh the serration transporter not that [INAUDIBLE], but I became really fascinated by these patients with OCD and their families um, and, and, even early on and this was like forever ago right this was 2001. Yeah, like 2001 2002 2003 um, there were these patients that were you know, with in the pile of heterogeneity of OCD that weren’t behaving how all the rest were, so they were they didn’t respond to treatment psychotherapy as well. They, they, messed up all of the genetics results . They were just a huge pain in the butt, and so NAME was one of the first uh labs to really adopt NAME and NAME’s saving inventory revised to. So with in his sample of OCD um, we started looking at hoarding behaviors. Um, so fast forward I decided to not go into neuroscience and not to go into medical school and I instead got my PhD in clinical psychology, and I did that at UNIVERSITY um, with NAME who is actually an anxiety researcher, but um NAME was great because he let me do whatever I wanted to, and what I kept gravitating back to was OCD and then this like mystery group of patients um, which was the focus of hoarding. Um, so yeah. So that’s my background. So I'm a clinical psychologist, and after I finished my PhD I did all of my clinical internships and my postdoc up at UNIVERSITY uh with OCD and related disorders program up there, and I've been down here at UNIVERSITY for the last eight years.Interviewer1: And do you currently uh, see patients with hoarding disorder or are you just conducting research?
Interviewee: So we’re uh, its bazaar in uh, in the world of clinical psych especially if your associated with a university in STATE. It’s the same way for other states as well but, but, um, STATE in particular I don’t actually have to be licensed . So I personally do not see patients but within our group I mention to you we do. My lab focuses um, on risk and vulnerability across anxiety OC spectrum. Um, so some of the work we do is looking at trans diagnosis risk factors. Um, some of the work we do is focused on OCD and then probably a, a, third to a half of the work we do is focused on all things hoarding. So as result of that um, it’s a real conundrum down, down, here and considering how big of a city CITY is um, it's always shocking to me. I mean I can barely find treatment provides for anxiety and OCD so for forget hoarding like there really isn’t anyone else um, who does anything remotely helpful for these patients um, and I'm not being a snotty academic uh who is over stating the reality of it. It's really like tough down here, so as a result of that we um, do have on going groups that we provided which I then supervise, and so that how I still have a lot of contact with patients. Um, we do the facilitated self help group, and then we do group therapy for hoarding patients um, and then so that’s more CBT focused group therapy, and then we also do individual therapy for hoarding patients.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Interviewer2: Okay.
Interviewee: Again, a long answer sorry guys.
Interviewer2: Yeah, no that’s okay. Um, so just to kind of get started thinking of the issues in our interview, and we’ve already talked a little about this but just to get us thinking about um, about how clinicians think about hoarding right now and how you as a clinicians think about it. The first question that we like to ask you related to, related to, this topic is just to have you talk through what the most important differences between normal saving behavior such as perhaps collecting and hoarding disorder are.Interviewee: Great question. So and I think, that there um, we just finished a study looking at the dimension of hoarding uh, or rather saving behaviors um, so that’s something that I'm very interested in because I'm particularly fascinated by who are these people when they are young?
So before they are sixty-five and coming in to out treatment programs or our study protocols who are these people when they are like twenty?
 where are they?
What do they look like?
And I think, a really important piece to understanding that is knowing what is normative saving and what is is not normative saving, and the cool notion about collecting I think, its really fascinating and so in six months I’ll have more concrete answers for you guys about what I think really distinguishes uh abnormal from normal behaviors um, and I'm not sure if our hypothesis are going to to pan out. I mean the most obvious thing is the level of like the threshold at which you save something and the threshold at which you let something go. That is much higher for hoarding patients then it is for those of us who don’t have hoarding. Um, I also think that the rigidity with regard to saving rules is also one of the factors that differentiate and then seeing value in things. I think, it’s the other piece that is going to really differentiate normal from abnormal.
Interviewer2: You you're doing a study that is related to the kind of early lives of hoarders or are you more looking at this boundary between normal and abnormal saving behaviors? What when you say that I'm not sure.
Interviewee: Both, both.
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] Okay, so what specifically are you doing if you don’t mind.
Interviewee: Yeah, so we well first of all I'm really interested in these young adults, and college students are these really fascinating group because it’s the first time they are living alone but they are still living in this fairly controlled environments um, so better understanding which of those students are doing to go on to become our eventual hoarding patients is, is, something that I'm really curious about, and, and, importantly our core diagnosis criteria of clutter is absolutely worthless with that group of young adults cause they A haven’t had time to collect enough stuff and B they’re living in controlled environment. They are living in like a two by two foot dorm room with a roommate  um, and, so none of these students would meet for clutter like none of them. So they wouldn’t get the diagnoses of hoarding, so we absolutely see difficulties discarding um, and a lot of the similar features that we see with like, like, clinical hoarding patients like the older patients we also see with these younger kids. Um, so that’s part of it. Another study that we did, but isn’t really related to that is that we recruited eighteen gender match healthy control, and then collectors people who do not meet the diagnosis for hoarding but they have a collection and they identity has a collector, and then hoarding disorder patients, so we basically artificially created a dimension um, by oversampling those three groups.Interviewer2: That is really interesting. I will be really interested to hear what you find. Um, just kind of concretely how do you operationalize that in terms of when you look at a patent in front of you and you have to make that determination? How do you make it clinically?
Interviewee: You mean like differentiating between the collector and the--
Interviewer2: Mhm or the clutter the cluttered person who you know, um, who has a lot of stuff versus a hoarder versus somebody who has difficulties discarding, but as you said maybe doesn’t have control over their space. How do you when you're sitting with a patient um, and you're not sure how do you determine if their saving behavior is normal or abnormal?
Interviewee: Mhm yeah, I think, I mean, uh, partially what we want to do with this data is to try to get better at differentiating that. So they way we recruited for that study was to use really strict exclusion inclusion criteria. If you’re in the hoarding group you have to meet for DSM five criteria for hoarding disorder. Okays, so it's pretty strict how we define that inclusion with the healthy controls. You have to have to not meet that diagnosis and you have to be below the means of that SIR. Okay, so with in the like normative healthy range of on the saving inventory revised, and then for the collectors the only criteria we used for them was that they could not meet the criteria for hoarding disorder which most of them did not meet for two reasons one they didn’t have the clutter and then two they had difficulties discarding but only with respect to the thing they collected. Let me tell you there are so many weird collections out there . That alone was fascination um, like they guy who collected fire hydrants he had a hard time he had extreme difficulty discarding his fire hydrants , but he did not have a difficulty discarding anything else.
Interviewer2: Okay, so perhaps these is [INAUDIBLE] making this distinction. There is an element of knowing being able to value some things over others.
Interviewee: Mhm, but we’ll see if that holds true right because we’re going to look at the data dimensionally and, and, I would not characterize collectors a healthy.
Interviewer2: Great, so perhaps it’s a spectrum as well.
Interviewee: Yeah, for sure, and, and, ya know, that’s good. That’s we did a [INAUDIBLE] study on hoarding, and it at least looking at the least and looking at difficulties discarding and clutter. It is a dimension.
Interviewer2: Great.
Interviewee: Tts is a spectrum. It's not that there is a latten taxon on hoarding versus non hoarding.
Interviewer2: Great, okay, what about in terms of demographics of patients with hoarding disorder. What do they tend to look like when you think of a hoarder? When you picture them what would they typically be just in terms of oh age, race, economic status, perhaps region background, if they are real or urban?
Interviewer2: Um, I'm laughing because these are all complicated questions um, and I'm not talking to the media, so I'm not trying to be [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer2: Yeah, and it’s a confidential interview, so don’t be like I said the idea is to gage where people, where the field is, and what we know right now what we what are [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: Yeah, no, no, no, I understand.
Interviewer2: Well, we don’t need an evidence based citation for what you're about to say.Interviewee: Well, so who do I think, about who is in our trial and who is in our research protocols. It is older females who are sterility educated but economically lower SEF.
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Interviewee: They tend to be like higher levels of loneliness like maybe they have um, a few core group friends, but there are interpersonal relationships that you maybe would typically expect that they no longer have, so perhaps estranged from family and what not. Um, they tend to be white do I think, that those are only--
Interviewee: Are they more located in the country?
Interviewee: What was that?
Interviewer2: Are they more located in cities, or uh suburbs, or the country?
Interviewee: No, I think, they are everywhere, and I mean that defiantly comes from my I mean, we would like in CITY hoarding patients would come out of the woodwork. Like you would advertise for like a washing study, and you would have all these hoarding patients. Um, a I’ve had a harder time recruiting hoarding down here in CITY than I have anywhere else, and I think, part of that has to do with that our city is over sixty-five percent Latino.
Interviewer2: Hm.
Interviewee: And do I think that we don’t have hoarding in those populations?
I don’t think so. I don’t think that that’s the answer. I think it has to do with perception issue you know, a lot of these like first generation or even second generation. Lets say let's take the Cuban immigrants for example they have fought tooth and nail for what they have, and now I'm going to come in a tell them that it’s a problem that they can’t move easily through their home. Of course they are going to be resistant to that. They are not going to self identify with that, so I think there a big part of that. Um, I, I, think, that we don’t understand enough about what hoarding looks like in other ethnicities, and then certainly also from what we know of um, the epidemiology studies is that there is no gender difference, and if I focus on my young adults there is no gender difference so somewhere in there--
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] seek treatment. Yeah.
Interviewee: All the dudes are getting lost.
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Interviewee: But it's not just seeking treatment. Like that’s why I keep emphasizing like not just our treatment study but also our research protocol in both of those places we see primarily females older females.
Interviewer2: So do you think, that’s a that’s a question with insight or identifying as a person with a problem with clutter or hoarding? Do you think, it’s a higher level of stigma?
Interviewee: All of the above probably right, and then I think, there’s probably another factor which is that I mean don’t know maybe more of these dudes are like living with partners who are cleaning up after them and basically keeping the clutter at bay?
I don’t know.
Interviewer2: Interesting. Um, so I just want to bring this up because uh I, I, don’t want us to get crunched for time I know we can talk up until and we both want to be respectful of your time, but I think, that probably we’re not going to be able to make it through all of our questions, and I'm wondering if it's possible to uh just get as far as we get and the schedule another time with you to, to, continue or follow up?
Interviewee: Sure, we can do that.Interviewer2: Yeah, okay, um, so just the last part of that question was just to have you think through, and this is just a useful exercise because it makes it very concrete um, to think through a specific case or cases that was challenging for you to diagnose either clinically or in research because it was on the border between pathological and non pathological behavior um, perhaps it was almost sub-clinical, or for other reasons perhaps it was it was similar to another mental health disorder and on that border, or again you give the example of one you don’t have cluttered house, but you know, had clutter in storage spaces. So could you think of a specific case that was challenging for any of those reason, and kind of talk through how you end up making the decision?
Interviewee: Yeah, sure, I mean that the um, if you hadn’t asked me about a specific case and just asked me what do I think is the biggest problem with the diagnostic criteria um, for me it comes down to two things. The first is the clutter criterion. Um, I think, the clutter criterion is fascination because it's almost like if we were to translate that to like OCD for example it would be like saying ‘let me see your hands are they bloody enough?
Okay, they are you have OCD, and that’s not at all how we would diagnose OCD right?
Interviewer2: Right, right.Interviewee: Um, but that’s what we do with hoarding. So, I think that it is a huge problem in a situation, like a person who lives in a studio with their partner, and they have that living space cluttered up. Do they have more severe hoarding or less severe that the person who is rich, and has fifteen storage units and two homes that they have filled up, but their current home is spick and span, and beautiful?
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer2: Literally, our next question was going to be for you to talk exactly about that issue so you're--
Interviewee: Oh --
Interviewer2: Like, we’re thinking along the same lines. Yeah, so how do you-- how do you do that? How do you decide how do you operate with that criteria, and, this is-- literally how do you do it in your practice?
Interviewee: Yeah, so is this like for the treatment, or like our groups that we run? Um, I'm super flexible with the clutter criterion because I just think that if somebody’s telling me that they are distressed and impaired because of their attachment to objects, regardless to whether that results in clutter, that is at the level the is required based on the DSM. I will let them in for our research study. It’s a lot more challenging, um, so, you know, because, people want to know if-- oh, you define hoarding disorder-- like, it is in the DSM, then you have to make sure that they meet that way. So basically, what I've been doing is, doing, like, a shadow, um, definition, which is to really hone in on the difficulties discarding as the, kind of, primary diagnostic criterion, because it its, and issue-- our field is going to have to grapple with in, um, and I think, especially as we start to look at hoarding across the globe, I think these where it's going to be particularly relevant. Um, if you put me living in a camper trailer, it's automatically going to feel more cluttered, even though I'm not a cluttered person, right? You know then, if you put me in a special, you know, five bedroom, like, mansion space, and-- how much access we have to space is something we have to think about. I don’t think there’s any clear cut answers right now, and then the other diagnostic criteria I have a huge issue with, um, is the acquiring. Um, so, identifying acquiring as, uh, the specified, and-- I just-- I'm just, like, ‘hang on a moment’ okay, so we have a patient who has full blown hoarding, but the don’t have acquiring, so they say no to acquiring. Nine time out of ten, those patients are either actively avoiding any sort of situation where they may be tempted to acquire, or they’ve run out of money, okay, like, they literally can’t, like, they are barely feeding themselves and their family, um, or there’s some other, like, kind of, extenuating circumstance, like, I've never purchased things, and then you find out all their-- like, of our magazines disappear from that waiting groom every time that patient stops by, and so, I think that its is it doesn’t allow for a nuanced description of, uh, the acquiring issue in hoarding, and just because you are avoiding something, does not mean you do not have a problem with acquiring. You have a really big problem with acquiring, but we live in a very materialistic world, so your constantly exposed to stuff, so those are my two bones that I have to pick with--
Interviewer2: With the criteria, yeah. What about this issue of telling hoarding from other mental health disorders? So, you know, there are several types hoarding, some of them mentioned are obsessive compulsive disorder, also depression sometimes that patients get very upset--Interviewee: I don’t, I don’t-- the hoarding depression distinctions-- that difficult. I think that’s pretty easy, um, but the one that I think does get a little bit tricky is, if they have OCD and hoarding, um, and being able to, like, tease apart which hoarding behavior is linked to OCD, verses what is linked to hoarding disorder. I think that gets a little bit tricky.
Interviewer1: We had a participant like that yesterday actually, [INAUDIBLE] that you mentioned that it is very challenging.
Interviewee: Yeah, interesting. Mhm.
Interviewer2: Mhm [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE] What I say to my students is that if you go back to why are they saving, why are they attached to the objects? Then, I think, it becomes a little clearer. It just depends on how much insight the patient has give you answers to that, if it comes down to they just like their stuff, you know, then it's pretty clear its hoarding.
Interviewer2: Um, mhm, [NAME] do you want to move into the DSM five questions?
Interviewer1: Yeah, okay.
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer1: Yeah, exactly. So you had brought up the DSM five criteria, and we actually have some specific questions that. We want to ask you about the specific elements in the DSM five criterion, and how you imply them and employ them in your practice and your research. So, uh, the first phrase that we wanted to mention was persistent difficulty discarding or parting possession, regardless of their values, and so, with this, we, kind of, wanted to get you how you’re deeming value and what makes the values judgment a hoarding patient makes inappropriate?
Interviewee: Um, I mean, so the way that we usually-- first, we always ask if they have any difficulties with discarding, um, objects or belongings, and if the person says yes to that we always ask for examples. Um, what are the types of things you have difficulties discarding, and, um, if someone were to say-- my Faberge eggs or, I don’t know, whatever. My-- you know, my eighteen hundreds stamp collection. Um, then we would ask the follow up question: Are there any other types of objects you have a hard time letting go of? Um, so, I thick there is a very obvious aspect of value that has to do with, just, in general, with most people think that that something you should hang on to, um, and, and if not, then, I-- kind of, seeing how extensive it is-- like, are there multiple objects? Um, I think that’s really, kind of, the crux. It's not only that they have a hard time discarding, um, baggies for-- or, the only have a hard time discarding take out containers. Like, a hoarding patient has difficulties discarding a range of objects, and, again, that threshold for how many of these objects they have is tends to be a lot higher then-- yes, I sometimes save takeout containers as well, but I have, maybe, like, two of them, versus, you know, so many that you have this cluttered living space.
Interviewer2: Mhm.Interviewer1: So, it seems like it's crux of thing to which they are applying that distorted value judgment to, and there’s also an aspect that you mentioned, of, that there is a cultural or societal norm for what things have value, and I'm curious to whether that monetary value, or emotional values, or atheistic values-- which of these are we talking about?
Interviewee: Um, I think that-- I think it-- I think it depends. I don’t think we have really good answered for that yet. Um, if you go with that example of the woman I just talked about, where she had the five storage units, so she-- the part that I didn’t mention was, she lived in a house boat, actually. Okay? So she lives in a very small space, basically the size of a camper, um, and the stuff that’s in the storage facilities is is all of her parents old belonging, um, and she’s, you know-- also, part of the context here is she’s, like, I think sixty-six or something. Like, that, um, and her parents died, like, about twenty years ago, and, and so, in those twenty years she has kept paying for those five storage units. She has gotten divorced. She has loss a home. She has been displaced because of hurricanes. Like, all these things have happened to her. She has hung on to those storage units. Um, she also really-- part of the reason she’s on the boat is, she’s financially super, super strapped. She’s on medicaid, um, and a lot of people, including her adult children, have suggested she should go through those storage units, because there may be something of value in there that she could actually sell to try to get her off of the boat and into, um, a, you know, a kind of, normal apartment or home, um, and so that would be an example of where she probably has some valuable stuff, right? So I think another element that you have to factor in is, how much do you hang on to stuff, even if it is of value, despite reasons that would indicate that you should see or discard or do something with them? Does that make sense?
Interviewer2: Yeah, totally. That’s a lot that-- a lot for that criteria that a lot of work [INAUDIBLE] diagnostic work behind that criteria, you know, it leaves a lot--
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer2: On the shoulders of the clinician.
Interviewee: Absolutely. Which is another thing that brings me back to why I am so fascinated to think about your average physician, right? Who, who maybe only ever seen advertisements for buried alive. What are they going to do with these criteria? Like, how are they determining this? They’re not right? An anyway, I digress.
Interviewer2: And it is very interesting-- again, kind of, to move in the interview to talking about the interview process, just from my perspective, just from listening to these interviews, the very different ideas that people have about there diagnostic criteria-- I mean, they go from thinking there’s a lot of nuance, to very little nuance. Just in the few interviews we’ve done so far-- we’ve done about eight so far, and we have really seen a range. I don’t know if you agree with that [NAME], but it is very surprising to me, the different ways clinicians talk about this criteria.
Interviewee: I wonder if a lot of that is going to come down to MDs.
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Interviewee: Versus--Interviewer2: That’s part of what we've been wondering. If it is a doctor thing, is it a-- you know, perhaps the background in OCD? Or, if you are background in social work, or, I don’t know ,but it will be very interesting to look. I think, at at the end to see why that is.
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewee: So, sorry to interrupt [NAME].
Interviewer1: No, um yeah, um, so, the next criteria we wanted to bring up and, kind of, discuss with you is, uh, the-- this is, kind of, something we had talked about. The discarding of possessions-- they have and accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, thereby compromising their intended use, um, so--
Interviewer2: You know--
Interviewer1: Yeah. Go ahead [NAME].
Interviewer2: No, uh, we were going to ask you exactly what you had answered us already.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer2: Determination as to how much stuff is, is too much, depending on things like house size. Um, you know a lot of factors with that, but we also wanted to ask-- since we kind of already talked about it-- I'm just going to loop by that question if it's okay, um, but, we also wanted to ask about the idea of, um, substantially compromised use, um, and how you view, as a clinician, what the patients intent for the space might be? Um, I don’t know if that make sense as a question. You know, like, uh, the example that we give is, if a person doesn’t cook, what is the the intended use of their kitchen, and what’s a normal intended use?
Interviewee: Mhm, right. Yeah, yeah no. Like, uh, the little lady who’s awesome. She ninety-two. She’s done all of our studies. She still wicked smart. She love to entertain. She's got this group of lady friends that she likes to have over and they play bridge. She gets all of her meals delivered. She does not need her kitchen because of her-- you know, physically she’s, she’s rather compromised, just because of her age. So she'd rather-- and she doesn’t really sleep in a bed anymore, she sleep in a one of those lazy boy recliners because it helps her get up. Um, so, you know, her bedroom is just a storage facility. That’s what it is her kitchen is just another closet. She doesn't need it for anything, uh, she has access to the sink, and she has access the fridge, which is really-- she has access to her microwave, and that what really all she needs. Um, so, do we give her that criterion or not? I do, because, like, there’s a lot of layers to the onion. Um, she can’t find some document that are fairly important to her. If a fire were to break out in one of those back room she’d be toast. If there was some other problem that would happen in the, like, cave that is the rest of the house, you’d never know, and it could be pretty serious. Um, she had, like, a rat get in, right? And like, for that poor exterminator guy trying to find, like, where that rat is living like is a serious issue. So yeah. It's really subjective I think.
Interviewer2: Okay.
Interviewer1: And there are other things that, kind of, have to come into that judgment.
Interviewee: Yeah.Interviewer1: Um, you kind of mentioned something that leads into a second question that we have, that relates to space. Uh, so, for healthy individuals even, there is a degree of variance in the amount of space that you like in your home. So, some might like to have a clear desk, while others might prefer to have things out and ready to use. Do you feel like hoarding disorder could be an extension of that variance that surpasses the acceptable threshold? You know, we had another interviewer say, ‘Some people just want to be surrounded by their things.’, and live more cave like, if you will. You mentioned that word.
Interviewee: Yeah, totally. I think it's a spectrum. I don’t think we are looking at an extreme taxon here.
Interviewer2: Hm.
Interviewer1: Hm, okay. Um.
Interviewer2: Um.
Interviewer1: Go ahead [NAME].
Interviewer2: Okay. The last criterion-- Yeah, just to-- I think we’ll wrap up the questions we had about the DSM five, and then we’ll get another time on your calendar, if that’s okay. Um, the last criteria we wanted to have to talk through, for us, was the just the difficulties with the perceived need to save the items, and the distress associated with discarding them, and we wanted to talk about how you determine the distress with this disorder. How do you determine how much distress with discarding is normal or abnormal? Is it a grey area, and, in particular, is a grey area for patients that might have low insight, and not really be aware of how difficult they have-- um, the difficulties they have with discarding?
Interviewee: Um, I think it probably becomes a grey area for sub-clinical folks, but I, I usually don’t find it so grey for people who definitely have hoarding disorder.
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Interviewee: Um, I think that [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE]  Go ahead.
Interviewee: The part when I'm training, like, you know, my super newbie graduate students is that they have it in their mind that distress comes in, like, one form. So we do have to talk about that distress can come in the guise as anger, can come in the guise and anxiety, can come in the guise as, like, grief. You know, there’s, like, a range of emotion that can reflect or capture that distress, and as long as you are, kind of, thinking about it in that perspective, then, you know, then I think that the other part that probably is, when it does, kind of, start to get tricky, is when they haven’t been exposed to having to discard, right? Like, it has not occurred to them that they need to get rid of anything, um, and so they haven’t really elicited the distress, um, in any sort of concrete way.
Interviewer2: Um, yeah, so, that kind of is leads us to our next topic but I think we finally should stop before we move into our next larger issue um which we wanted to talk about was insight and what insight means and what relation with these patients but I think kind of to be respectful to everybody's time but to also save a little bit of time for um just closing up the interview let's stop there and then maybe we can find another time to get on your calendar if that’s okay with you
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewee: Sure yeah, no, that works.
Interviewer1: I think that the question is- kind of, moving forward now is, how we might want to collaborate on this project. How we might move forward.Interviewee: Let me say, well, can we hold on before I answer that? I'm just looking at my calendar, so I'm actually okay to go for another half an hour if you guys want to power through, but if you need to go we can wrap up.
Interviewer2: I'm okay for another half hour, I don’t know about you [NAME].
Interviewer1: I could do that as well.
Interviewer2: Okay, well good, let’s keep going.
Interviewee: Yeah, lets maybe do that because, uh, its uh, its going to be a really busy next couple of weeks for me so, um yeah, okay, perfect. So insight is really--
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Interviewee: Sorry. I'm just jumping.
Interviewer2: No. Go, go for it.
Interviewee: So, so insight is very interesting because, obviously, it's, like, the- I don’t get that I have a problem, and its so not on my radar, and the extremes of that we have squalor and animal hoarding, but I really think of those as, kind of, being something kinda different. Like, it just kind of feels very different, um, almost a little bit more like psychosis. Um, your more garden variety hoarding disorder patient will also have variable insight, but the thing that I find so fascinating about that insight, is that it is so variable, and its like this floating insight, an it think that it we don’t have a good way of defining what exactly it is. Like, we haven’t fully operationalized what we mean by insight and, you know, there’s the part where it like, ‘Yeah I know I have a issue and I can acknowledge that but I really like my stuff and so you push too much on my stuff, um, I'm going to push back again with that.’ right? ‘like, I'm not going to fully agree with you.’ uh, it's that part where they kind of stick their heels in the mud, and it’s a hard forward, and is that because the really don’t get it, or is it because they feel like, 'why are you pushing me like that?' Uh, those are two very different things, right? So, certainly what I'm working on with patients clinically is-- and when I'm supervising, um, the groups-- I think it gets really tricky to be able to kind of roll with that, and I think about it the same way I think about insight for someone who is struggling with an eating disorder, or a substance abuse problem, which is that is variable and floating.Interviewer2: That’s really interesting. Um so, we want to talk a little bit more about a couple of the things that you said. Um so, one of the things that you mentioned that we’ve been thinking about is, kind of, the way you could, or might, operationalize inside of this population, um, and we listed a paper that had, kind of, broken down the the different constructs that are, and we wanted you to just, kind of, talk through the extent that you think that these constructs are useful with your patients. So, I’ll just read you the list an, and we can go through them one by one, or you can talk about any one of them that you think is more or less interesting. So, the constructs that we listed were defensiveness, um, agnosia, which is just like a lack of ability to perceive the illness or whether something is wrong,  overvalued ideation, which is the persistent and unreal belief in the potential value of items indifferent, and indifference is the last one. So, defensiveness, agnosia, overvalued ideation, and indifference. Um, so just thinking through those as potential, kind of, pieces or parts of insight, do you think that any of them are more or less important in this disorder, um, for different qualifications-- different times, and how would you use those ideas to come up with a more concrete idea of insight?
Interviewee: What paper is that? That’s great.
Interviewer1: Um, I think it’s uh a [INAUDIBLE] from, uh, I-- I can’t remember.
Interviewee: Oh, of course it is [NAME]. 
Interviewer2: Yeah. 
Interviewee: I’ll have to read that again. Um, I think defensiveness and overvalued ideation are relevant across the board. I think indifference can be relevant and, and that part about, just, have a complete-- like, you're just really not able to recognize that it’s a problem. Yeah, I think that’s really relevant for something like squalor or animal hoarding, and I guess it could also be relevant for object hoarding. It just I think less common. 
Interviewer2: Uhuh, and, kind of, thinking through again, um, the process of gaining, and the patients being-- maybe being at different levels of insight at different times. Do you think that theses different kind of insight are relevant at all to that idea?
Interviewee: Yeah, because like, the defensiveness-- like, if you are tapping on something, or like, I guess, I think of the defensiveness as, kind of, going along with the control idea, um, I guess, maybe, just something that just isn’t capturing so well is-- I do think is an issue with some patients-- is, that they don’t have the same definition for what is a clean home, or what’s, like, an uncluttered space. So those would be, like, patients who your showing them a clutter image rating, and they’re like, ‘Oh my god! Look at this room! That’s a nine. This is horrible. How could somebody live like that?’, and then you ask them what their living room looks like, and their like, ‘Oh, it think it might be like a seven.’ and it like, [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] most people don’t live at a seven. 
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE] don’t live at seven but, like, seven and a nine aren’t really that different to me, so--
Interviewer2: So, that’s another aspect of insight that is represented here is kind of seeing their behavior, um, on a scale of normal. 
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer2: And it's not just about overvalued ideation, it's about how much-- how a space should look. How a normal home looks like.
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly. Mhm.
Interviewer2: That is important, and I think that you are right. Um, so one interesting idea that we’ve heard about this, I just want, to kind, of run by you, is that there is a difficulty for clinicians sometimes, when talking about insight, and that, um, there’s two things going on. One thing is recognizing that the behavior is a problem, and the other is the behavior itself. So, um, there’s insight in that, you know, the behavior problematic, but then there’s also insight that you have to know that, you know, that the saving you shouldn’t save. So, I don’t know if I'm phrasing that well, but it something that came up in our most recent interview is that there’s a degree that insight, its kind of part of hoarding disorder. If you really know that you shouldn’t save stuff, um, then there is another level that is able to get rid of it level. It's very difficult to distinguish. I don’t know if I'm making this [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: No, I think that whoever said that is spot on. I think that a really important distinction-- It would be, like, you know-- with, with hurricane Irma we had a lot of patients call us, you know, before the storm and just say ‘I just wish it would just take it all away I wish the storm would come in and just take it all away.’. I would not say that all of those patients were the most kind of, um, high on insight, but it really, kind of, reflects this part. Like, ‘Okay great. I recognize that I have a problem, but I don’t recognize that I have control over my behavior.’.
Interviewer2: Mhm, mhm. 
Interviewee: I think that [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] – would be better without this stuff, but still--
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewee: Definitely talk to is [NAME], and I'm goanna-- if you haven’t already reached out to [NAME]-- I'm going to send you his email. Um, [NAME] runs the housing up in [CITY], and [NAME] has, I think, really different insight, because he’s reaching patients through the department of housing before they self identify, um, and so I think that his perspective about, you know, how does insight and motivation for treatment-- how does that all play out-- is, is really different from those of us who are, kind of, in a little bit more, um, I don’t know, uh, elitist type of treatment programs, right? Where, by the time somebody has called within the greater [CITY] community, they have found their way to the study of anxiety stress and OCD at the [UNIVERSITY]. I mean, they absolutely already have some insight. Um, now, not everybody is ready for what it takes to do this treatment, which is probably why I kind of have this unspoken rule, that everybody has to do the facilitated self help group first, and then they, kind of, work up to the CBT group, and then they work up to the individual therapy. Um, sometimes we break that rule, but rarely, and I think part of it is, we have them do the self help group first to try to figure out, ‘Are you really ready for this?’. Um, do you have to have enough, kind of, motivation to, kind of, push through uh those tough times? 
Interviewer2: Mhm, mhm. And um, I-- we’ll reach our-- reach out to you at the end of the interview for contact information. That something we intended to do. You listed, and get names from you, and I think you're right, he would have a really different perspective on how patients-- 
Interviewee: Yeah. 
Interviewer2: Come to this, because you see, some other [INAUDIBLE]--
Interviewee: And, you know what?
Interviewer2: Mhm. 
Interviewee: [NAME] treatment outcomes look better than ours. 
Interviewer2: Interesting. 
Interviewee: Yeah. 
Interviewer2: Yeah, and like-- 
Interviewee: And, you got that carrot-- you’ve got the carrot. Of you're going to lose your voucher if you don’t do this. 
Interviewer2: Mhm. 
Interviewer1: Mhm.
Interviewee: Yeah. 
Interviewer2: Okay, um so, [NAME], want to move on to the next section?
Interviewer1: Yeah. I think that the last question I had for you, from the insight topic, is, uh, when you're describing a patient with having low insight, um, what does that mean for you how are you defining insight?
Interviewee: Well, I think it's basically what I, you know, what I kind of touched on before. Is that, for low insight, it would mean, either there is an aspect that they cannot recognize, right? They’re, like, looking at the dead birds that they have collected, and they’re like, ‘They are happy and healthy.’, like, they do not recognize that they have a problem. Um, that’s obviously an extreme example. But, but then it think that the other way I would define insight is, this variable insight, which would be more of that defensiveness, the overvalued ideation, and then the indifference piece, like, ‘What’s it to you that my house it cluttered?’. Um, I think clinicians constantly get in to trouble when we want to get them, like, to a one on the clutter image rating, and they’re totally fine being at a four, right? Like ‘What’s the big deal?’. Um, so yeah.
Interviewer1: Yeah, okay. Okay, um, so, the next section that we wanted to move in to was, kind of, on a related note, and we wanted to talk about some of the explanations that some patients have for their behavior with hoarding disorder. With their patients we wanted you to think through some of the questions from the adopted version of that brown assessment of belief deal, and we want you to, kind of, think, from the patient’s perspective, how your patients would respond to some of these questions. So, the first one that we have was, what do you think has caused you to have these behaviors? Do you think these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause? How do you think your patients, or the research subjects that you see, would reply to those to that question?
Interviewee: Uh, I think that, that-- I think it differs depending on the education level the patients have. You could get some pretty different answerer to that question. Um, but, I think that the general answer that most of my patients would say is that, ‘I've always liked stuff. I don’t know where that came from but I've always liked it.’. 
Interviewer2: And you think that that changes over the course of coming to understand they really have a disorder? Or do you think that that is pretty constant? Um, I guess what I'm trying to get at is, do you think that the process of getting insight changes this?
Interviewee: Um, I don’t know if insight would change that answer. I mean certainly if they-- 
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewee: Been through our group, and we’ve told them that it is, you know, we-- we find that a lot of our patients feel a lot of relief, um, from having been told that there’s a lot of this-- you know, that notion about, you had a lot of cards in the deck that, kind of, predisposed you to developing this, um, they feel really relieved by that. 
Interviewer1: Hm okay. The next question that we wanted to ask was, if you had to asked patients who argue that they need to keep these things, that something bad will come from discarding them, how do you think they would respond to that?
Interviewee: Well, that sounds like a very OCD focused question. That’s maybe the researcher commenting on that. I think a lot of our patients, if we were to ask them about that, like, something bad will happen. I think that if our patients have OCD hoarding, then they will be like ‘yes’, and then, if they have hoarding because of hoarding disorder, they’d be like, ‘What do you mean something bad is going to happen? Well, maybe, I mean, I don’t want to be wasteful’. But, I think that question won't make as much sense to them. Like, if I were to ask you guys, ‘Why do you, you know, keep your old note, or why do you keep a card that, you know, your partner gave you on your last anniversary, like, are you afraid that something bad will happen if you get rid of it?", it be like, well, no I'm keeping it because I value it. 
Interviewer2: So, that kind of fear or anxiety based, for you, are a big part of the difference between OCD hoarding and hoarding.
Interviewee: Yeah, one thing where that’s different, I think, like, the one exception for that, is that we have a lot of patients that are really worried about, like, the environment, and not wanting to be wasteful, but it's, it's not tied to the specific object, but it's more because they have a really strong belief that, to be good citizens of this world-- 
Interviewer2: And they might have more [INAUDIBLE] something will happen if I let this object go. 
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer1: Yeah okay, um, so now there’s another question that we kind of already discussed, about, uh, postdoc reasons and, um, something else that you’ve already mentioned. That is another question that we wanted to ask is, do you think that cultural forces-- that associating back to values and self worth, consumption and material possessions, play any role in the development of hoarding disorder? What kind of role do you think that plays?
Interviewee: Ah man, I don’t know. I don’t know. I think it obviously has to be part of it, and, you know, as the world is changing-- but, you know, hold on. Let me give you guys an example of why I always get stuck on this. Um, I was speaking with a woman who just completed a stent with doctors without borders, and so she's working in like rural Ethiopia, and this woman came to her clinic and was, um, crying and really, really upset, and was like ‘Nobody can help me with my husband.’. Um, and- and it’s the way that it works in that part of Ethiopia. Two level homes, and basement. The ground floor is where all the animals would stay at night, so all the goats and what not wouldn’t be picked off by wild animals. Um, so then the family lives up on the second level, and so, with one woman went on to describe the fact that her husband is collecting all sorts of, like, containers, and like, extra clothing pieces, and potential building supplies, and, like, all of this stuff that when it was described to me sounds sure a lot like what my patients tend to acquire, um, and collect and save. Um, and, and he basically filed the entire bottom level of their home, and so the reason she was upset was that they had already had like three of their goats killed, because they were no longer within the protection of the-- of the home, and so is, is because of materialism? When you obviously have to have access to stuff, right? So, but, we live in a world where even if your on, like, a deserted island, you could start to collect coconut shells or whatever. I don’t know. I-- I don’t know. I don’t know. Not a concrete answer, but I think that’s the big question that we have.
Interviewer1: And you say exceptions because, usually these individuals are living by themselves?
Interviewee: Yeah, or they’re just living with their-- like, you know, partner. Their husband or their wife. Um, but, in cases where-- especially down here in [CITY], we have a couple of patients I'm thinking about, where their multigenerational living in under the same roof, um, and so the hoarding is impacting more than just their partner, and so those were the few exceptions that I had in mind, where the patients is the one who seeks treatment. Where we had then had, like, a family meeting. 
Interviewer2: Mhm. Just because the other individuals will be directly impacted, and will be kind of helping them to live without their stuff or to discard--
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer2: Um, you mentioned the case of, you know, people who are come into hoarding treatment because of social service workers, or because of they are going to be evicted. Um, so I guess I'm wondering, in comparison with, with the people who are brought in by their families, um, you know, you had mentioned earlier that they-- their outcomes are better because they are going to lose their vouchers. So do you think there is a different process for patients who, kind of, come in to contact with, or have to, to make these decisions because of forced by an institution or state entity? 
Interviewee: Mhm yeah. I think-- I think when you guys talk to [NAME] I think that will be really interesting for you. 
Interviewer2: Mhm. You think that a pretty different process for them?
Interviewee: Yes because-- 
Interviewer2: Because they don’t have any control at that point? 
Interviewee: I mean, if you think about our treatment-- our treatment is not rocket science, and its also not, like, in some ways, it’s not mount Everest. It's like, okay, you're going to discard your stuff. You're going to practice discarding your stuff. Were going to create a hierarchy that you use, and we’re going to work our way all the way up, and them maybe we will throw in some, you know, cognitive remediation, and maybe we’ll throw in some, like, cognitive therapy to target those beliefs. But its not that it's like that challenging. You ask anyone who works with hoarding patients what its challenging, I would be shocked if not on one of their top ten list is getting them to do their homework, and telling them to do it. Um, so, I think that that’s the part where the external forces is just so instrumental, because it just helps in, um, you know, but-- I say that but there’s some days, like, they still-- [NAME]’s group has tried a token economy an that, you know, works just about as well as everything else we do, ie not that impressively. Um, and so I do think there’s something about it being very, kind of, hard, concrete, external reinforce-er. I don’t know. I’ll be curious about what you guys say after you talk to [NAME]. 
Interviewer2: Yeah, I think that that will be an interesting interview for us, um, and we’ll get in contact with him, I think. I'm not sure if I can find him. I just looked him up and I didn’t email address, so.
Interviewee: I’ll, I’ll send it to you. 
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] later. 
Interviewee: Yeah. I’ll send it to you.
Interviewer2: Yeah um, I mean that sounds good to me. I certainly hadn’t thought about that until you brought it up, but I think that would be a really good outcome from the interviews that were doing-- to try to put something like that together, um, and, so yeah. One way that we could move forward is-- certainly when we’ve done a bunch of interviews with with experts-- so we’re interviewing experts, starting with experts, but I think that we’re going to work out towards the periphery once we are able to with out time and, kind of, resource constraints, and use that to make a survey that we could, like you said, really front line people who are understanding this disorder, and I think it will be interesting to try to build that component. Like, to what extent is that due to popular media depictions of it. To-- you know, to what extent is it really, strictly based on the DSM five and you know, and you know, to really see, you know-- also I would be interested in knowing how much your average frontline social worker, um, psychiatrist, or psychologist encounters this in their practice. Like, is this an issue everyday, or is think something they have never heard about or thought about? So yeah, we could certainly do that when we are in a further stage in our interviews. Um, I think that also something I think about, that we have talked about would be really great, to have you be involved with this. We’ve talked about kind of-- out of theses clinician's interviews-- kind of coming up with a smaller group of really of key informants or key experts who we can talk through the issues, um the-- emerge as we-- as we catch them. Like, maybe have a working group of something from the study that we can touch base with periodically, either via phone or email, and say, you know, ‘We’re interested in this, but what should we do? How should we ask this question? Um, how should we put this to patients?’ you know, and how do we act as kind of uh-- a consultant or kind of advisor, particularly if we move into the patient interview component, um, which hopefully we will be doing, um, at the end of the summer and the fall, um, and so if you would be interested in that we would-- 
Interviewee: Yeah, sure. 
Interviewer2: Really value your input as we-- because it's all kind of taking shape. The, the wonderful thing about qualitative methodology from my perspective is it's very exploratory. It lets you cast a really broad net and that something that-- kind of, where we are right now- we’re going to kind of take stock of what we’ve caught in that board net and see what pieces are interesting and when we get to that it would be--
Interviewee: No that sounds perfect. 
Interviewer2: Helpful to touch base with you again and say-- you know, we really want to understand-- this is something that we found in our interviews, and we really want to understand better how should we-- how should we move on to the next stage, or how do we get at that. Um. 
Interviewee: Yeah no, that sounds great. Really good.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewee: I would be super interested in that, um, and-- and very much game and, so yeah, even also in sifting through these interviews, if I can be help for that-- especially since you know [NAME] will be providing more of like an MD perspective-- and then I would be providing more of like a psychology, uh, clinical psychologist perspective. So that could be helpful in that. 
Interviewer2: That be [INAUDIBLE] when we get to the data analysis stage, that would be very very helpful I think. 
Interviewee: Yeah, and then the the last piece that I’ll say that we can kind of, like you know, file away an-- and remember for the the the future is that-- um you know, if you do end up going towards the like, patient interviews, um, that’s the part where I also, you know, I don’t have-- I have three graduate students who are working with me, um, but I have an army of undergraduates, and some of them are the ones that do the hoarding groups, um, and so there they know about hoarding. They’re trained and also they are clinically very adaptive because I selected them for the group, so we could also think about that. They may be able to help with the interviews. That would be like a concrete way. 
Interviewer2: Yeah, that would be helpful, and we’ve also kind of wondered-- and this is perhaps another issue for another day. Um, we’ve wondered how difficult it would be to recruit hoarders for these interviews, um, and have thought about perhaps seeing if we could recruit collaborators to help us find hoarders to interview. So if you would be game, um, for that kind of role of collaboration with us as well, we can talk about that. You know we’d have to obviously figure it out before logistically and in terms of the IRB, um, but, um, that might also be helpful, depending on how our recruitment goes. 
Interviewee: Yeah, for sure, for sure, absolutely, yeah and I mean you guys are just up the road so-- um so yeah. 
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] speaking yeah. 
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s great. Well nice to make contact, and nice to meet you guys. 
Interviewer1: Yeah, definitely. 
Interviewer2: Yeah, and thank you so much again for your time with the interview. We-- I think-- both enjoyed it and appreciated you your insight. 
Interviewee: Yeah, sorry if I was long winded. 
Interviewer2: No, no, no, not at all. Um, its great and-- it's great that there are you know um, there is definitely a spectrum to which degree people are kind of engaging with these issues, and so we’ve had interviews with people who are relatively unwilling to engage and are like-- of like, ‘Why are you asking these questions?’ and then we have other people who are like, ‘Yes, I think about this all the time.’ and it's always gratifying to have that, and we always get a lot out of them. Um. 
Interviewee: Oh cool. 
Interviewer2: We appreciate your time, and thank you. 
Interviewee: You're so welcome. 
Interviewer2: And we’ll be in touch over time to follow up with the next steps. 
Interviewee: That sounds great. 
Interviewer2: Thank you so much for your time again. 
Interviewee: Okay, bye, bye. 
Interviewer2: Take care, bye.
