Interviewer: Ok. Now I want to talk a little bit about the DSM-5 criteria for hoarding disorder.
Are there things about the DSM-5 criteria that you feel are sometimes challenging or particular elements that are difficult to apply where the different clinicians might apply differently?
Interviewee: I think the DSM-5 criteria actually is quite well written, and the fact that they put insight and acquisition as specifiers rather than requirements is important.
And that there does not necessarily need to be unusable living spaces if there’s an external agency person helping to keep the living area clean.
I think that impairment criteria is very difficult to assess or can be difficult to assess.
How do you… If there isn’t a huge amount of clutter how do you assess somebody who is in the early stages of hoarding disorder, for example.
So for me, the problem is not people who have somewhat moderate to severe hoarding, its people who are in the early stages where we might want to intervene early and yet it’s not yet clear whether they meet the criteria.
I think those folks are likely to get missed or underdiagnosed.
The ones who are starting to have difficulty discarding and are starting to save but have not yet accumulated to the point where there is impairment.
That’s where I would like to intervene, but they may not meet criteria.
Interviewer: And that’s because the criteria almost necessitates a certain amount of time span, you think, to build up that degree of clutter, or?
Interviewee: I don’t know if its time spent or absence of external factors controlling it, or if it’s just the natural progression of the disorder, but… and obviously all the DSM criteria, all the DSM diagnoses requires a level of impairment or distress, but I think that the focus on clutter as one of the primary mechanisms of impairment is good at the severe end, but may not be good in the early stages.
It may be distress that’s more relevant there.
And I think that may be, well I think that people will say “Well your beds are not full of clutter therefore you can’t have hoarding disorder,” and I think that’s where we might get into trouble.
For such a new disorder though, I mean I think this will become more of a problem as time goes on, right.
That right now what we want is for people to recognize the disorder as such and diagnose it in those cases that are clear.
And some of the more subtle ones, they’re important but we have a long ways to go before…
Interviewer: Ok.
So now I want to ask you some questions about the way you think about specific phrases or portions of the DSM-5 criteria.
So I’m going to read you a phrase and I’d like to know more about your thought process as you apply that to individual patients.
So with “persistent difficulty discarding or parting regardless of their actual value,” how are you determining value?Interviewee: That's hard.
I don't determine value in any concrete way.
Some of it is you ask the patient about what they think the real value of it is, and that gives you an assessment of insight in addition to assessment of value.
But actual value can be assessed, and I do assess it using cultural norms.
For example, junk mail for most people in the society that we live in would have no actual value.
Sentimental value is something that's a little harder to assess, and it's harder to apply cultural norms, and so some of it is volume, some of it is the person's own thought about how sentimental something is or isn't.
But the value is tricky, actual value is tricky, because it's not just monetary.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Another phrase, "difficulty discarding possessions results in accumulation that congests and clutters active living spaces."
I know that we've talked about this.
Does home size play into this at all?
Interviewee: Home size does play into it.
Although you'll find that people who really have hoarding disorder will fill up almost all of the spaces regardless of the size of their home, and I think what... There's two things that matter, home size is one.
In a single room occupancy hotel you're going to have more trouble with clutter than you are if you live in a mansion.
That said, the difficulty discarding is still the issue, and means rather than home size, I think, is the biggest problem.
People who don't have means may, even if they live in a big space, still have clutter because they don't have the means to organize it, put it away, hide it.
They don't, you know... People who have means may do better in organizing things, putting them away out of sight, etcetera.
Some of that is insight.Interviewer: What do you mean by means?
Interviewee: Well money, insight, help, family members, etcetera.
So I mean we certainly see people who have enough space such that their clutter is confined to one or two rooms, and then we have people who live in huge spaces in rural areas where their entire space is full of stuff.
And there it's that, sometimes, either they don't have the ability themselves to move things around, the insight, the desire, there's nobody else living with them, or they have severe hoarding.
So space does play a part, there's no question, but I think... and you have to take that into account when you're looking at somebody with a big home or with a lot of space, especially when you get into that tricky zone, which is, you know, the mild to moderate level.
Severe hoarding you'll see in all levels of space.
Again, the key issue is difficulty discarding, and when I see somebody who has a really big home I ask them, you know, "If there was nobody controlling your stuff, what would this house look like?" or, "In the spaces that are exclusively yours, can you use them or are there spaces that just have stuff in them that you no longer use for their intended purposes?" So sometimes people will turn bedrooms into junk rooms rather than a guest room, for example.
Interviewer: Ok
Interviewee: And that's ok if they go in and out and use it as a workroom, but if it's got stuff in it and they never walk into it then that's an indication.
Interviewer: Ok.
Do you see differences in how much free space an individual needs to live normally?
So, you know, what is a comfortable amount of space?
For example, some people like to have open counters, while others prefer to have knickknacks and things.
Could this be a similar, but more extreme difference?
Interviewee: Not sure I follow that question.Interviewer: So one of the ideas behind talking about clutter is that the space is filled and that's a problem, but are their people for whom they don't need to have as much free space in their home in order to live with a sense of ease or comfort?
Interviewee: Oh sure.
And I think that the key is not volume of space, but the space is not usable.
Right?
So things piled on top of the stove is different than knickknacks on the counter.
Right?
So usable space is determined by the individual, but there are also certain things for which, and this, again, gets to kind of cultural norms, whatever the environment that you live in, and etcetera.
So somebody whose bed is filled with pillows that go off the bed at night is different than somebody whose bed is filled with papers, and they sleep in a corner of the bed.
So again, it's what is on the counter, let's say, and is it there deliberately or is it there for lack of space?
And those are fundamental differences.
It's not what's... it's not how much is on the counter, but why is it there and can you use the counter.
Some people don't cook and so then their counters can be filled with things.
There also is a very big difference between collectionism, which is deliberate, and hoarding, which is because of a difficulty.
I mean there is excessive acquisition in people with hoarding, but people who collect go out and look for specific things, and they get pleasure from that particular thing, and, you know, they organize and arrange, etcetera.
That's a very different phenomenon.
Interviewer: Ok.
Kind of going back to something that you mentioned, you know, if someone doesn't cook, for example, their stove might have things on it, and so with the phrase in the DSM "substantially compromising intended use."
Is that kind of a cultural intended use or is that this individual's intended use?
Interviewee: I think it's kind of both, right?
Somebody who doesn't cook but has papers on the stove still puts themselves at risk.
Somebody who doesn't cook but has repurposed the stove into something else, that's different, right?
So to some degree it's the individuals, and so this gets to the insight as well, but... And this is tricky for all the psychiatric illnesses, which is, how much of it is driven by the individual and how much of it is driven by our current society?
Delusions and schizophrenia are a good example of that.
Although, for schizophrenia, even though there are cultural norms and things are more accepted in some cultures than in others, there's still this kind of core symptomatology that's seen and accepted across all cultures, and I think probably the same is true for hoarding disorder.
Which is, if the living area is unsafe or unsanitary or piled in a non-deliberate manner, then that would probably qualify.Interviewer: Ok. So we've touched on this a little bit, the difficulty discarding due to a perceived need to save items and distress associated with discarding them.
How do you go about determining how much distress is normal or abnormal?
Interviewee: Well I think that distress in discarding in general is abnormal, right, in that we may feel a little twinge of sorrow when we get rid of something that has sentimental value, but we've decided it's time to go.
But that's not really distress, that's sorrow, right?
Distress is a feeling of real discomfort because... well in this case because you might need it, because you're worried that if you let it go you'll miss that information or you'll miss that object.
Its... I would actually characterize it differently.
You know, when I'm getting rid of my kids' T-shirts from when they were two I feel a little bit of sorrow about that and I feel sentimental, but I don't feel distress.
I don't feel like I'm going to need those again; I can't get rid of them because I'll never remember my child again.
Its really more of a, kind of a sentimental sorrow.
And so, I think the intention of that term in the DSM-5 is really about, its causing problems.
And in this case its problems related to a physical sensation or an emotional sensation, anxiety, etcetera.
Interviewer: Ok.
And is it sometimes difficult to assess the level of distress that hoarders have?
Interviewee: Yeah, there's no real objective way to assess an internal feeling, right?
Interviewer: Yeah.
What about if a patient is denying having a problem?
Interviewee: So that's true for all disorders that have variable insight.
I think you have to assess some external measures of distress and impairment.
If they won't let someone into their home, if they feel socially isolated, if they can't bathe or can't do very basic activities of daily living, then even if they deny impairment we would intuit impairment.
But for example, the man who was an information collector with all of the technology, he came to our study because he recognized that there was a problem.
And so his level of distress did not meet active criteria, and he was one I actually sent a case around to multiple experts to kind of help determine, and they all agreed he was kind of on the borderline.
But he had some inkling that there was something there.
And so we can create Likert scales to determine the amount of distress, but there is really no... it's an internal feeling.
It's kind of along the lines of "how much pain are you having," right?
Impairment is a little easier to quantify because you can assess activities of daily living and functionality.Interviewer: Ok. So next I want to move to talking about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder have for their behavior.
I know we had you list some earlier on.
Are these explanations, in your opinion, post hoc reasons to justify pathological need?
Interviewee: I don't know.
That's what my lab is trying to figure out.
I don't think there are false explanations.
I think that they may not be the... they may not get at the biology underlying the disorder, but I think that people do save for lots of reasons, sentimental in addition to other things.
And that different people with hoarding disorder have all kinds of different attachments to things.
And so I do think there's an underlying biology that drives most of it, maybe not all of it, but I also think that that biology might express itself in different ways.
And that visual memory may be part of it, and for some people sentimental attachment may be part of it.
And so I think the answer is kind of in between yes and no for that one.
Just because there's an underlying biology doesn't mean that the reasons that people give aren't valid.
Interviewer: Ok.
So in your experience, how do you think patients would respond to this question from the Brown Assessment of Beliefs?
"What do you think has caused you to have these beliefs?"
Interviewee: Behaviors, it would have to be for this, not beliefs.
Interviewer: Beliefs, behaviors, yeah.
Interviewee: Or difficulties.
How do I think patients would respond?
I think there would be a whole variety of answers.
Many of them would say... I mean a lot of people would attribute it to childhood trauma or some traumatic event.
People will say that it is, you know, wanting to remember a loved one.
Some will say that they... They will give reasons that have to do with why they keep things, not causation.
I think that if you asked somebody about what you think has caused it, I'm not sure that they would be able to answer it in that direct way.
I think they would say, you know, "I need to do this because I have memory problems," or "I want to remember my mom," or "I need to be sure I won't need something in that newspaper," or "I need to read everything before I discard it."
But I don't think that they'll say something along the lines of, "No I was born this way," or, you know, "it's genetic," or anything like that.
I think they'll give kind of individual reasons.
Interviewer: How do you think they'd respond to kind of the second half of the question?
"Do these beliefs or behaviors have a psychiatric or psychological, neurological cause, or are they true?"
Interviewee: True?
That's part of the BABS?Interviewer: Mm-hm.
Are they actually true?
Interviewee: So "true" is not going to work for hoarding either because it's not a "true," right?
That's for delusions.
This is where I'd have to dock the BABS.
I would change that to saying, "underlying medical or biological cause" not "psychiatric, psychological, or neurological."
I think you'll get some people say yes, they think it's an underlying, there's an underlying biological cause, and I think some will say, "No, I think it's because of how I grew up."
I think that varies along with just about everything with people, right?
Which is that people with more medical or biological or scientific sophistication will have some understanding that this might be a medical or biological problem.
And others will not have any awareness of that.
And some of that has to do with the fact that this disorder is still not really well known or understood by the lay community or by the medical community as being a biological psychiatric problem.
So I think most people will say, "No, it's not a psychiatric problem."
And I think that is actually something we should adjust in the BABS to really fit our population.
I think we're going to have to look at it, because the BABS was really written for psychosis.
Interviewer: [INAUDIBLE] Alright.
So the literature surrounding hoarding disorder describes hoarders as often having low insight.
How do you define insight?
Interviewee: Insight is the awareness of what your symptoms are and how they impact you and the world around you.
Insight doesn't have anything to do with the causes of the symptoms.
Interviewer: Ok.
I'm going to read another question from the BABS, so how do you think your patients with hoarding disorder would answer this question?
"How convinced are you of these ideas or beliefs about the value of things and the impact it has on your life?"
Interviewee: Ok that's going to have to be reworded also.
"How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding them?" A version of that.
I think that has to do with varying levels of insight.
Some people will say, "I know that I can get rid of it, but I just can't bring myself to do it."
Some people will say, "I know I need this and sometimes I'm convinced of it, and sometimes I know that I can get rid of it," and some people will say, "I have to keep everything."
I think that particular thing is an insight question essentially, and it will vary by people.
I think we'll get more of the, "I know at least some of the time I can get rid of it safely," than the, "I always need to keep it."
Interviewer: Ok.
So you think that that low insight subgroup is -
Interviewee: Not going to come in for treatment.
Interviewer: Would you say that it's... that you think prevalence wise or population wise it would probably be a 50/50 split?
Interviewee: No, I think it's a spectrum like this.
I mean I think there's some people with very good insight and high motivation, some people with very poor insight or almost delusional, and then most people are kind of in the middle.Interviewer: Ok. In that literature, there's been a breakdown of the concept of insight into many different constructs including defensiveness, anosognosia, or lack of ability to perceive your illness when something is wrong with your quality of life, overvalued ideation, indifference.
In your experience are any of these more prevalent or more problematic in your work with these individuals?
Interviewee: Probably anosognosia and, to a lesser degree, not overvalued ideation but overvalued beliefs that these are going to be needed in the future, somebody is going to need these in the future.
Indifference is not usually a problem.
And what was the first one?
Interviewer: And defensiveness.
Interviewee: Defensiveness is a secondary phenomenon, I think, around, for people who have insight, a need to, well, defend their symptoms and behaviors, but I think it's tied to insight.
I don't think it's a measure of insight.
It's a proxy, I think, you can get at insight a little bit.
You can imply that people have some level of insight if they're defensive, but I don't think it's a direct measure of insight.
You do see it, though.
Interviewer: So, you cannot have defensiveness without insight?
Interviewee: Without a modicum of insight at least.
Interviewer: Ok.
Can you describe some of the typical processes that occur in order to get patients to your office for treatment or study participation.
Do you feel like it's normally self-motivated or by others?
Interviewee: In my experience it's been both, most of the people who come and stick in treatment it's self-motivated.
Sometimes the family member is pushing them to come, but again, they don't tend to stick unless there is some individual motivation.
And then I have had court ordered cases as well.
Interviewer: Ok.
How long has the hoarding behavior been going on before you typically see patients?
Interviewee: At the very least a decade and usually much longer.
I've seen a few in the early stages, but most of the people who come into treatment have had it for a very long time.
Interviewer: Ok.
How aware, would you say, are typical patients that they have hoarding disorder when you first see them?
Interviewee: Well, because they're in my clinic or in my research study, pretty aware.
Interviewer: Pretty aware.
Interviewee: Yeah.
They're coming, for the most part, on their own accord.
They may not know the term, but they know the problem.
Interviewer: So, next I'm going to ask you, how do you explain hoarding disorder to a patient with low insight?
Interviewee: I think that has changed over the years as my understanding of it has changed, but I explain that things are valuable to them, that even though they're valuable there is some risk in keeping as many things as they have.
There's safety issues, there's health issues.
That we are not asking to get rid of all of their things, but just to make their home safe and livable.
It's kind of a harm reduction model.
I don't try to get into what's causing it.
I don't try to get into even explaining what it is as a psychiatric illness, because if they have low insight that tends to raise defensiveness and decrease cooperation.
My goal is quality of life, so if they have very low insight the issue is improving their living circumstances and not getting rid of their stuff.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: And that's changed over the years as I've kind of worked with folks more and more.Interviewer: Are there ways that you can help a patient try to gain insight?
Is that something that you try to do?
Interviewee: I think for those that are amenable to it a medical model can help.
Understanding that this is a biological disorder that can progress with age and that can be treated with behavior therapy and sometimes with medications.
That helps.
I think not everybody's amenable to that.
Some people... So, you have to figure out what model of explanation is amenable to the patient.
Some people the medical model is very helpful.
For some people understanding that our goal as treating clinicians is not to empty their homes, but to make them safe, not to take away their sentimental attachments, will help them gain insight and ability to discard things.
So, it is a little bit about kind of assessing what their underlying ideas about their own symptoms are and working towards an inroad there.
Which is really kind of what the context of motivational interviewing is.
Find where they're motivated to make a change.
Do you want your grandchildren to come?
How do we make that possible?
This isn't for you, this is for your kids.
Some of those things can help.
But to be honest those folks don't tend to stick around in treatment, they tend not to come in because this is not something that's well recognized as an illness.
It's still seen as a behavior that is intentional or volitional, and therefore there's a fair amount of shame and defensiveness around that.
That isn't insight per se because that's cultural, right?
That's how society conceptualizes this disorder right now.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: To me insight is, despite kind of a recognized, societally recognized understanding of something, your view of it is different and limited, and I don't think we're there for hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: So, what do you think causes a patient to fail to gain insight?
Interviewee: I think it's biology actually.
I really think that insight is neuronally driven.
I think we can modify it to some degree and work with it.
I think just like in schizophrenia it's not volitional, and, as in schizophrenia, we don't try to change patients' minds.
We try to work with them without endorsing their delusional states, also without directly challenging them.
I don't think that insight is a volitional thing that you can work on in therapy.
I think you can modify it and shift it to a degree, but I really think it's biologically based and maybe progressive actually.
Lack of insight may be progressive.
It may be a marker of severity of illness, I'm not sure.
Interviewer: I know you mentioned the psychiatrist's role in improving patients' quality of life.
How much do you feel like insight or the lack thereof impinges on an individual's quality of life?
Interviewee: I think it can impinge on it quite directly.
I think many of the people who die in hoarding houses lack insight.
I think people who animal hoard and live in really fettered conditions with starving animals lack insight.
So, I think insight is actually a prime motivator or prime cause of impaired quality of life.
I think people with better insight are more motivated for treatment and are motivated for change.
Whether they're successful or not on their own is a different question, but they're the ones who come in seeking treatment and are always trying to declutter.Interviewer: So, you feel like, we psychiatry, medicine is not in a place where we can directly treat insight, lack of insight.
Interviewee: No, I think we can chip away at it, but I don't think we can directly treat it.
And I don't actually think we've been very successful in schizophrenia or anorexia either, which are two other disorders which have a significant insight component.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: We try with anorexia to kind of pound insight into folks, but I don't think it's successful.
I think people recover from anorexia and at some point, they gain insight, but I don't think psychiatry really impacts them in that context other than treating their symptoms such that they can come to it.
Interviewer: Can you speculate as to what goes into that shift to insight?
Interviewee: For anorexia?
Interviewer: For anorexia, what it would look like in INDISTINGUISHABLE
Interviewee: I wish.
I have patients I wish I could get to that shift.
I don't really have a good sense, unfortunately.
I think motivational interviewing can help kind of identifying places where symptoms or problems are causing distress that the patient themselves identifies.
I actually think, for a lot of patients, insight varies, it's not static.
Insight can be greater or worse at certain times or times of life or whatever.
But I don't think we can really treat insight per se, not in most people.
That's not to say we shouldn't try.
Interviewer: Ok.
And have you seen that variance in insight in individuals with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer: And it's just over days, over time, what kind of period have you seen?
What have you seen?
Interviewee: I think there's two kinds of trajectories, one is over time with treatment, somebody who engages in treatment, their insight can shift for the better.
I also think that people have moments of insight, often with an... so when somebody comes over and makes a comment about their house.
Where, you know, they're habituated to the situation and something kind of brings it to their awareness from an external perspective.
That can cause flashes of insight.
I think defensiveness, which you talked about before, can kind of create lower insight as kind of a protection at some level.
So, if you push too hard you can have people retreat into kind of a decreased state of insight.
And so temporally you can see longitudinal changes, usually with treatment, but sometimes just with disease progression, and then you can see these kind of momentary shifts, which sometimes can also lead to temporal changes, right?
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: Kind of those breakthrough moments people talk about one way or the other.
Interviewer: Ok.
Kind of the last set of questions I wanted to ask you were: what role do a patient's family and friends play in arriving at a diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well if you can get collateral information it's always very useful because patients can over and under report their symptoms, typically under report but also over report.
An assessment of impairment and distress, an assessment of insight.
It's hard to get that collateral often, but when you have it it's useful.
Interviewer: What relatives do you find are most often involved in that process?
Interviewee: It's not necessarily relatives, it's somebody living with the person, so living partners usually.
Children sometimes, sometimes neighbors actually.Interviewer: Ok. And do you... what's the relationship between patients' family, friends, loved ones living with them and their degree of insight?
Interviewee: I don't know that there is a direct relationship.
I think if you have somebody living with you, you have an external person who can provide more insight, but also, or you know kind of help with that, but they can also, if you don't have high insight, can create defensiveness.
We also have people who are kind of passive participants.
So, I'm not sure if family members... I definitely have treated family members whose loved ones have no insight, and they're coming for treatment themselves because they can't impact their loved one.
I'm not sure that I think the loved ones have a real direct impact on insight.
Again, I'm not sure what causes insight, but I think it's more biologically driven.
Interviewer: Ok.
How often or how frequently are employees of the state, you know, social workers, police officers, homeowner's associations, involved in cases of hoarding disorder and people coming in and diagnosing?
Interviewee: So, the two different questions.
The first one, it depends a little bit on the density.
So, in rural areas I think it's much less common.
I think in urban areas it's quite common, so in San Francisco and in Boston where there are big hoarding task forces, etcetera, the police, the fire department, landlords, tenant's associations, are very aware of this issue.
They have been trained how to diagnose it or at least assess it.
In places here where it's very rural I think people could go for many, many, many years without ever being recognized, so some of it depends a little on... NAME_OF_COUNTY has a hoarding taskforce actually, through the sheriff's office.
But I think it depends a little bit on the impact on society at large, and the more density there is, the higher the knowledge base because the higher the impact.
Diagnosing it, I think most of the time people will recognize that there is a problem but will not be able to diagnose it because I don't think there's an awareness that it's an illness.
Even, you know, even among medical professionals.
Interviewer: Ok.
Well alright that is all the questions I have for you.
Interviewee: They're good questions.