Interviewer: Hi [NAME] how are you?
This is [NAME] again.
Interviewee: Ok.
Well that sounds like a better connection already.
Interviewer: I’m really hoping so.
I just gave it a couple of test calls to make sure that we would be clear, but uh…
Interviewee: Ok, yeah.
Interviewer: I apologize in advance if we have problems.
I really can’t figure out what is going on.
Well I appreciate your time and trying again to do this interview with me.
I will very briefly kind of re-explain what we’re doing and then we’ll just get into it so that I don’t use up any more of your time, if that’s okay.
Interviewee: Yeah, go ahead.
Interviewer: Ok.
So this is a project that is aimed at gathering expert knowledge on hoarding disorder.
And we’re kind of looking at the disorder from a, I don’t want to say theoretical level, but at a high level to try to understand the ways that experts conceive of what constitutes hoarding disorder.
So we’ll be talking about kind of the boundary between hoarding and normal behavior and what, in your mind, really are the hallmarks of this disorder.
The aim of the study is to try to understand kind of two-fold.
One is to understand the state of our clinical knowledge of hoarding disorder at this point.
Then, what we’d like to do is to compare the perspective of experts to the perspective of patients.
And the purpose of doing this is to try to understand patient insight and to try to understand if there are disjuncts in the ways that patients and experts understand what constitutes hoarding disorder.
And if we can perhaps leverage our understanding of those maybe different perspectives to try to get people into treatment for hoarding sooner.
So that’s the purpose of what we’re doing today.
The way that the study is organized is we are employing a snowball sampling methodology.
We started with a core group of experts and then they recommended the people that they think know the most about hoarding disorder in the world, and that’s how we got your name.
And what we’re going to do today has two parts.
One part is called free-listing, and that’s kind of, uh, an exercise in which…
Interviewee: What did you say that was?
Interviewer: It’s called free-listing.
Interviewee: Free-listing?
Interviewer: Uh-huh.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer: It’s a social science methodology where we ask participants to generate a list of items off the top of their head.
And then we’ll statistically compare the different lists that people produce to see if we can understand differences in the ways they think about topics based on items that are in their lists and the order that they’re in.
So we’re specifically gonna compare the lists generated by experts with the lists generated by patients.
And then the second part of our talk today will be kind of a semi-structured interview, so it will be much more conversational and freeform.
And I’ll kind of walk you through some questions on this topic.
Does that all sound okay with you?
Interviewee: Sure.Interviewer: As I mentioned the last time we talked, but I’m not sure you could hear me then, this is obviously all confidential.
So what will happen at the close of this interview is we will have… we’re gonna make a recording once the interview begins and that will be transcribed.
Anything that could identify you in any way will be removed from the subsequent transcription and then the original recording will be destroyed.
So there shouldn’t be anything to identify you and obviously nothing identifying you will be published or released from our university.
Is that all okay with you?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s fine.
Interviewer: Right, ok so they might come in because they’re personally distressed by their behavior because they’re encouraged by their friends or relatives or because there’s a local agency that’s intervened in their lives somehow and are forcing them to deal with their…
Interviewee: Well the agency can’t force them to do anything, but the agency can force them to clean up or may go in and clean up their yard and send them a bill, and then the patient might be personally distressed and because of that experience it may contribute to them coming in.
Interviewer: Ok.
Those are the lists that we have for you today and to kind of move into the interview, I’d just like to start by asking you to describe for me a little bit of your background relating to hoarding disorder, your training, and your current either research or practice.
Interviewee: So I’m a psychiatrist.
I’ve been treating OCD, hoarding, and related disorders since the late 1980s.
I’ve conducted research over the years.
I’ve published widely on OCD and some on hoarding, I give lectures on OCD and hoarding disorder, and I personally treated dozens, uh probably dozens of hoarders and probably a couple thousand OCD patients.
Interviewer: Ok.
Are you currently seeing patients with hoarding disorder clinically?
Interviewee: A few.
Interviewer: Ok.
So to kind of start the conversation about your views on hoarding, if you were to explain to someone who knew nothing about hoarding, what you think the most important differences are between normal saving behavior, such as collecting perhaps, and hoarding disorder?
How would you distinguish hoarding disorder from normal saving behavior?
Interviewee: That the person is unable to discard unimportant items or items that otherwise lack value and because of the that, the living spaces become unusable.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: Or they become cluttered and in the worse cases, they’re not usable.
Interviewer: Ok.
Is it possible to hoard items that have, um that have value?
I mean can one be a hoarder if one kept valuable items instead of worthless items?
Interviewee: So you’re asking if someone can hoard things that do have value?
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: Yes, absolutely.
Interviewer: Ok.
And can you think of a case or…
Interviewee: I don’t recall having a patient like that.
I have had patients who save valueless items as well as items that arguably have some value.
Interviewer: Mm-hmm.
So it seems like for you the question of valuation, perhaps it’s a matter of not distinguishing between valuable and unvaluable items when you see them.
Is that, would that be correct?Interviewee: When I see them or the patient sees them?
Interviewer: Yeah.
I mean…
Interviewee: The patient, the patient sees everything as having some value to them, whether it’s monetary, or sentimental, or other.
But, I mean, clearly some of the things they describe to me you can, you know, you can sell on the internet, or garage sale, you can return them to the store and get some money, and so it’s, you know, it’s kind of a combination.
Interviewer: So would you characterize hoarding disorder as being a problem with valuation, so an inability to distinguish between items that are valuable and items that are not valuable?
I don’t know if that question makes sense.
Interviewee: That can be part of it.
I don’t think that’s an important element though.
Interviewer: Ok.
When you think about the patients that you’ve seen with hoarding disorder, can you think of a specific case or cases that were perhaps challenging to diagnose either clinically or in research because it was on the border between pathological and non-pathological behavior?
Interviewee: I can think of one case where a man collected books and his wife was quite distressed by it and the way she described it, he sounded like a hoarder.
But he denied that he was a hoarder and said that all the books were valuable and the living spaces were usable, so I basically considered him a collector.
Interviewer: Ok.
And that was because…
Interviewee: But that was, that was an example of where it was hard to draw the line.
Interviewer: And how did you draw the line?
I mean it sounds like it was based on the…
Interviewee: It was based on the fact that, at least by his description, you know this was a while back, I can’t remember what his wife said but the living spaces were usable and in fact everything he had could be sold, had some value.
So he wasn’t just saving food wrappers or, you know, trash, or things like those.
Interviewer: So it wasn’t indiscriminate?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: Ok.
We’d like to talk for a minute about the DSM five criteria for hoarding disorder.
We’re talking these through with clinicians because we would like to see how different clinicians apply them in practice.
Are there any particular elements of the DSM five criteria that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that you think that different clinicians may apply differently due to things like the language or clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Well, let me look up the criteria.
Interviewer: I’m gonna…I have some phrases from the criteria…
Interviewee: I have a DSM five right in front of me.
Now let’s see…a persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions – now that’s fairly easy to assess.
The difficulties due to perceived need to save the items and the distress associated – that’s fairly easy.
See the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions – that’s pretty easy.
Although, sometimes patients don’t accurately describe what they’re doing but relatives, if a relative’s present, they usually help.
The hoarding causes distress or repairment – that’s usually self-evident.
The hoarding is not attributable to another medical condition – that’s usually easy to use.
The hoarding is not better explained by the symptoms of another mental disorder – I have some problem with that and if you want me to explain, I will.Interviewer: Yes, please.
Go ahead.
Interviewee: So, uh, well let’s see so…I guess that allows me to also diagnose obsessive compulsive disorder but I think that quite a, a good, a fairly high percentage of OCD patients have some hoarding but it may not rise to the level of hoarding disorder.
And I’ve rarely seen hoarders who don’t have a few typical OCD symptoms.
Sometimes there’s some overlap that makes me wonder if I should be diagnosing OCD, or hoarding disorder, or both.
Interviewer: Do you ever have trouble with other potentially commonly comorbid conditions like depression?
Do you find that that is uh…
Interviewee: No, I mean, that is self-evident if it’s present.
Interviewer: Ok.
So mostly it’s kind of maybe not a cross-over but an overlap between OCD symptoms, which many hoarders display, and hoarding?
Is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah that’s correct.
Interviewer: How do you make the decision as to which diagnosis is kind of predominant or primarily…
Interviewee: Well, to me, if they meet criteria for both independently, I’ll give them both diagnoses.
To me, for hoarding disorder to be diagnosed, it really has to be a preponderant problem.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: If it’s just some minor hoarding, I’ll chalk that up to OCD.
Interviewer: I’d like to return to the part of the DSM five that talks about congesting and cluttering active living areas and compromising intended use of the person’s space.
Interviewee: Yeah ok.
Interviewer: Do you, do you…How do you make that determination, not just because you can’t see their space, but considering things like home size where someone might inhabit quite a small space like a trailer and fewer possessions would clutter their space relative to someone who has, you know, a really large house or the ability to buy a storage unit.
So do you ever take that into account or how does that affect?
Interviewee: That doesn’t seem to be a problem with the diagnosis because if people have tiny homes and they’re otherwise neat and tidy, you know, the behavior of hoarders is so distinctive that it’s hard to confuse that with someone who simply doesn’t have a lot of space available.
The person without much space might, you know, it’s still gonna be neat and tidy, stack things up carefully, and fold things carefully, or box them up.
Hoarders just tends to kind of throw things around and clutter the space and they don’t necessarily tidy up very well.
Interviewer: So you think that…
Interviewee: So now, now I’m not seeing this but I ask patients, you know, would I be horrified if I saw your home?
If you invited me over to your home, what would I say?
What would I see?
Describe it to me.
Interviewer: Mm-hmm.Interviewee: And patients are usually uh, at least my long-term patients are usually fairly honest with me in describing what I would see.
And if they’re doing worse, they tell me that.
“Oh [NAME] it’s worse.
I’m, you know, my hoardings out of control.”
Often they’ll be able to at least tidy up some space so they can have a chair to sit in, tabletop to use, but sometimes they can’t even do that.
Interviewer: So you feel like…
Interviewee: You have to, you have to ask a series of detailed, aggressively more detailed questions in order to get at it sometimes, but…
Interviewer: But do you feel like people accurately describe their space?
So I guess that’s another, the question is does it seem to be a problem where people don’t see the clutter in the same way that someone who does not have hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well, some of them don’t, some of them don’t seem to have a whole lot insight and maybe the spouse is the main complainer, is the person reporting and complaining about it.
And the hoarder may say “oh it’s not a problem, you know, those are valuable items, we need to keep them.”
And the spouse is “no it is garbage, we need to get rid of it.”
And other hoarders I’ve are treated are completely upfront, “I know it’s terrible, I hate it, it’s abnormal, I know it’s abnormal.”
The ones who seem to lack insight tends to be a minority of the patients.
Interviewer: That actually brings us really nicely to the next section of the interview which we’re going to talk specifically about insight.
So as we kind of turn to those questions.
The first thing I’d like to have you do is define insight for me.
How would you define insight for someone with hoarding disorder?
Or how would you describe…
Interviewee: The patient is, says “I’m a hoarder.
I save things that I don’t need to.
My house is cluttered.
I can’t use, I can’t enjoy my house.
And I know it’s abnormal.”
To me, that’s uh, that’s good insight.
Interviewer: Ok.
And it sounds like in your practice, most of the patients you see have fairly high levels of insight when you see them.
Interviewee: Most of my patients have good insight.
Interviewer: Ok.
Have you ever seen patients who have come in with very low insight?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: And when you see those patients, do you have a process for helping patients try to gain insight or…
Interviewee: I don’t think you can, I don’t think you can.
I don’t think you can teach them insight.
They either have it or they don’t.
So if I tried to spend my time improving their insight, I’d be wasting my time.
Interviewer: Ok.
And do you have a sense for the patients that you see how they acquired insight, if they always had insight into their problem or if something happened to help them?
Interviewee: Well, the ones I am thinking of always had insight and over…I am thinking of one patient in particular whose hoarding has progressively gotten worse as she’s gotten older.
Interviewer: Mm-hmm.
And you feel like she’s just always been aware that it’s been a problem.
Interviewee: She’s always been aware.
She’s very distressed by it.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: But she feels powerless to do anything about it.
Interviewer: Ok.
So it’s not a problem of her not knowing that, it’s an issue of…
Interviewee: No, no. She knows.Interviewer: …yeah, to impact it.
In the literature, there’s been a breakdown of this concept of insight into a bunch of different constructs for many different disorders.
They’re forming ones that have been kind of talked about in the context of hoarding.
These are defensiveness, anosognosia – or lack of ability to perceive the illness and that something is wrong – overvalued ideation – which is the unreasonable belief of the value of items – and indifference.
For you, do you feel like, with the patients that you’ve seen, any one of these four is the predominant problem of insight?
And so being defensive, might be someone who just doesn’t want to deal with the problem versus someone who has anosognosia who really doesn’t see that they have an illness.
Interviewee: I mean you see all of these things to varying degrees in most of the patients, but…I don’t actively think about those things when evaluating or treating a patient.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: I’m not sure, I’m not sure if it would help me one way or another.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: If the patient has no insight, I’m not gonna, I’m not gonna be able to give them insight.
Interviewer: Right.
Ok. Um, again kind of thinking through the understanding that patients have of their disorder, when you talk to patients with hoarding disorder about what’s going on with them, what do you think the patient would say is the underlying cause of their disorder?
Do feel like patients have a sense of what has caused them to be this way or is there…
Interviewee: So what you’re asking, what they tell me is the cause?
Interviewer: Yes.
Interviewee: Um, I’m not sure.
I always ask people, well why do you do this?
“Oh I’ve always done it or my mother taught me to save.”
Or some of the older patients would say “well I grew up poor and we didn’t want to throw things away because we might need them.”
You know, like people who are old enough to survive the Depression.
Interviewer: And um, kind of in your mind as you hear people give explanations either of the disorder itself or of the reasons for saving.
So a patient might say “I’m saving this, you know, item because it has sentimental value or because I might need it later,” do you feel like these reasons…
Interviewee: Yeah, they typically, they say those things.
Interviewer: Do you think that those are real, real reasons or do you think that they’re kind of post-hoc justifications for an underlying need?
Interviewee: I would think that they’re justifications.
Interviewer: So you think…
Interviewee: Every patient justifies their illness.
It doesn’t matter what the illness is, they all have some explanation.
Interviewer: So you think that the behavior comes first and then the rationale behind the need…
Interviewee: And then the rationale.
Interviewer: …follows.
Ok. Next we’re kind of curious of what clinical experts have seen with their patients in terms of the life course of hoarding disorder or in terms of how it changes over time.
Do you have a sense for how long the hoarding behavior has typically been going on before you see patients?
Interviewee: Well, it depends on how old they are.
Typically, for most people I’ve seen, they’ve had hoarding for years or even decades.
Interviewer: Ok.
So…
Interviewee: Many years or decades.
Interviewer: Ok.
So do you have a sense for when in people’s lives it tends to begin, so in childhood…?
Interviewee: Probably by their twenties.
Sometimes their twenties, maybe before that.Interviewer: And, so how long has it…how has the illness progressed over time, how has it come to…?
Interviewee: Over time, it seems to get worse.
Interviewer: Ok.
And then as they age, do you feel like the illness worsens or do you feel like, um, for instance social factors like the isolation of children leaving home or spouses dying or…
Interviewee: Well those things have an influence because if the kid’s living at home, the mother might force them to clean up their room so when he leaves to live on his own, he can do what he wants because mom isn’t there to force him to clean up.
If someone’s in a relationship, often the spouse will say, will force the hoarder to clean up or at least allow…you know, if the hoarder’s a woman, maybe the man will clean up because he can’t stand the hoarding, so a divorce, a death allows the hoarder to essentially live any way they like and often that’s an opportunity for the hoarding to get out of control.
Interviewer: Yeah.
A lot of the experts that we’ve talked to have said that hoarding tends to be more of a problem on elderly people.
We’re kind of trying to get at whether that is because it is a progressive illness that worsens as people age or whether that’s a result of, you know, possessions accumulating over time, perhaps changes in levels of their social support as they get older…
Interviewee: I think, I think all of the things contribute because a) they might not have a spouse to keep the hoarding in check, b) they’re older, so they’ve accumulated stuff over a lifetime so they probably have more stuff or they have a large house and the kids are out of the home so there’s more space to accumulate stuff.
And, you know, lastly, they may not be working, so when they’re working, maybe they don’t have the time or energy to put into the hoarding, but if they’re out of the workplace, they can spend as much time with hoarding as they want.
So there’s all these factors that seem to contribute.
Interviewer: Ok.
And I appreciate that you talked through that for me.
The final question is kind of about research related to hoarding disorder.
And when you look at the current state of research on hoarding disorder, what for you are the biggest unanswered questions about this disorder?
Interviewee: Could you repeat that?
I lost just a little bit of what you said.
Interviewer: Oh no. I said, as you kind of look over the current state of research regarding hoarding disorder, what are, for you, the biggest unanswered questions or the biggest things that we still don’t know about this disorder?
Interviewee: Well, there are a number of things we don’t know.
We don’t know exactly what causes it.
Most experts think it’s a combination of environment and genetic elements, but there, you know, there may be other factors at play.
The other thing is: we really don’t know how to treat it.
There are models to treat this with CBT, medication doesn’t work particularly well, so we need to figure out treatments that are more effective.
Interviewer: And for you…
Interviewee: So there’s this unaddressed need to develop effective treatments.Interviewer: And what right now is your sense of kind of the current state of CBT with regards to hoarding disorder?
I guess, you know, in laymen’s terms why do you think that it doesn’t work, why do you think that it doesn’t work very well?
Interviewee: Because every single hoarder patient that I’ve had has been referred for CBT and usually experts in OCD who understand hoarding and they’ve been trained in some of these models and the patient won’t persist, the patient won’t; it’s not that the treatment itself doesn’t offer something, it’s that the patient won’t do what the therapist tells them to do or they won’t persist at it.
Interviewer: Umm and, so there’ve been, so when we’ve had conversations with clinical experts, there’s kind of a divide in terms people who see hoarding as more related to OCD in terms of anxiety regarding discarding possessions versus others who see it as having a relationship to disorders that, like compulsive gambling where they have pleasure associated with acquiring.
Umm, for you, where would you see hoarding on kind of like the spectrum between those differences?
Interviewee: Well my idea was that hoarding should not have been designated as an independent disorder.
I see it as part of OCD.
I see it as kind of a sub…essentially as a subtype of OCD because as I said earlier, I can’t think of a hoarding patient I’ve ever seen who did not also have typical OCD behaviors like checking, washing, counting, et cetera.
And virtually, well not virtually all, but probably 30-50% of OCD patients I’ve treated have some element of hoarding.
Interviewer: So do you…
Interviewee: It’s not a preponderant problem, but they have some tendency.
So to me, the overlap is so great that I thought it was a mistake to designate it as an independent disorder because I certainly don’t see it that way.
Interviewer: And do you see this kind of a pleasure component with acquiring with your hoarding patients or do you kind of find that to be…
Interviewee: No, no because most patients say “You know, I really don’t like this, it’s upsetting” so, you know, we try to take the item away from them, we try to get them to throw it away.
I mean, you can even just talk threw this with them and they get progressively more anxious or more upset, so their behavior’s no different from what you see with a typical OCD patient.
Interviewer: Ok, well I really appreciate your time…
Interviewee: Now, now there is a subgroup of people who hoard who might be said to have compulsive shopping, I’ve read quite a bit about that.
And those people do enjoy the shopping, they enjoy buying items, fantasizing about shopping, et cetera.
And some of those people sound like hoarders because they buy so much that their house is cluttered with all these items that they have bought to satisfy their compulsive shopping, but to me, that’s kind of a subgroup, separate but slightly overlapping problem.
You can compare a compulsive shopper to the person with gambling disorder, certainly because, you know, those are both driven by pleasure.
Interviewer: And um, it sounds like in terms of your understanding of hoarding disorder, it’s a combination of either a genetic predisposition or behavioral modeling.
Interviewee: I think so.Interviewer: Do you give any kind of credence to the idea that being the response to trauma or as some patients might say the need to save because of poverty or anything like that?
Interviewee: The trauma explanation, no. The other explanation, I…that you mentioned saving because they grew up poor or something, to me that’s environmental, so there’s always an environmental component to that.
That could be part of why someone behaves this way.
But most people exposed to poverty and, you know, who don’t have much growing up they don’t behave this way, so there’s obviously something different about the person who develops hoarding from that background.
And to me, that’s probably a genetic component that predisposes them.
Interviewer: Ok.
Have you ever encountered a child who you would characterize as a hoarder or a person under the age of eighteen?
Interviewee: I can’t think of any but I’m not a child psychiatrist.
Interviewer: Ok.
Well, I really appreciate your time today and helping me think through these issues and participating in this study.
To let you know what the next steps will be as I mentioned: we’re transcribing these interviews and the team is conducting interviews for the next I think two months with the clinical experts, and we’re hoping to be able to report our findings and to report on kind of the general state of knowledge of this field shortly.
And then the second phase of the project, we’re going to be interviewing people with this disorder to see how their views align to try to understand how that might affect their adherence to treatment and their desire to seek treatment.
Um so I really appreciate your time today.
Do you have any questions for me about what we’re doing or anything I can answer?
Interviewee: No, not at all.
Interviewer: I really appreciate your patience; I apologize for uh…
Interviewee: Ok.
Yeah, you’re welcome.
Interviewer: Thank you very much.
Interviewee: Ok.
Bye now.
Interviewer: Bye.