Interviewer: Okay. Well great I will go ahead and explain what we are doing and give you our little informed consent spiel and answer any questions you have.
And then we can go ahead and get started with the interview because I don’t want to take up too much of your time.
The purpose of the project is to kind of get a feeling for the general state of knowledge about hording disorder at this time, so what we are doing is interviewing clinical experts in hording disorder using a snowball sampling methodology.
So, we are getting people to refer us to other people who they think are key experts so that’s how we got your name.
Interviewee: Okay
Interviewer: And we are asking them questions just to help us think through some of the critical issues surrounding the diagnosis of hording disorder what constitutes hording disorder.
I think that they are interesting questions for clinicians.
We have had good feedback so far, in terms of the kind of things we are asking.
We are interested in exploring questions like insight in hording disorders, so how patients come to understand that they have a disorder.
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: And so, in order to do that we first trying to understand how clinicians come to understand that their patients have a disorder.
So, the questions are all centered around how you as the clinician know someone has this disorder, what makes it different from normal behavior, where the dividing line is.
The next step of the project is we are going to be interviewing patients to see how they answer very similar questions to see if there are similarities or disjuncts in the ways that patients and physicians think about things.
And if that can be useful in helping patients come to treatment earlier and dealing with the problem in sight.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: So that’s the idea behind our project.
Interviewee: Sounds interesting.
Interviewer: I don’t know if you have any questions for me right of the bat.
Interviewee: No, I don’t think so.
Interviewer: Okay.
Well, so I will give you two sentences about me.
I am a graduate student in anthropology actually not in psychology or psychiatry, although I am a M.D. Ph.D.
So, I kind of got pulled into this with a colleague of mine who is getting his Ph.D. in Dr. [NAME] lab, and we started talking about this project.
So, we are going to be using mostly qualitative methodology, so we are going to be doing a semi-structured interview.
We are also going to be using a technique called free listing, which is an interesting technique where we ask people to kind of generate lists of things of the top of their head.
And the idea there is to be able to compare statistically the sorts of things that end up on the lists of different kinds of people.
So, we are going to be comparing this lists that clinicians generate with the lists that patients generate to see if there are significant differences in the way that people think about things.
So that’s what we are going to be doing today.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Stop me if I am going to fast or if you have any questions.
Interviewee: No, you are fine.Interviewer: The interview tends to take about 60 minutes.
If you don’t have 60 minutes rights now we can stop at any time.
I will go ahead and read you the informed consent and you can let me know if you have any questions or if there is anything that I can clarify.
Interviewee: Sounds cool.
Let’s just do it.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, I will just go through the informed consent really fast and let me know.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, you are volunteering to participate in a research project conducted by [NAME] from the [INSTITUTION].
Interviewee: Yep.
Interviewer: The aim of this study is to better understand the ways that researchers and clinicians think about hoarding disorder.
You will be one of approximately one of 50 people who are being interviewed for this research.
Your participation is of course voluntary and you will not be paid.
There are no direct benefits to you in participating and the biggest risk is a violation of your confidentiality.
You can withdraw and discontinue participation without any penalty.
If you decline to participate or withdraw there will be no consequences and no one will be told.
[INAUDIBLE] Most interviewees find the discussion interesting and thought provoking but if you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview session you have the right to decline to answer any questions or to end the interview.
Interviewee: Okay.
Got it.
Interviewer: Participation in this study involves being interviewed by us researchers from the [INSTITUTION].
We are thinking the interview will last about 60 minutes and we are going to take notes and audio record the interview.
After the interview, a transcription will be made of the audio recording so if you do not want to be recorded you will not be able to participate in this study.
The recording will then be transcribed and all information that could identify you will be removed from the transcription and then will we destroyed the audio recording.
We will also not identify you by name in any reports, your confidentiality as a participant will remain secure, and obviously subsequent use of records of data will be subject to standard data use policies, which protect the anonymity of individuals and institutions.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Faculty and administrators from my campus will not be present at the interview and will not have access to notes or transcripts.
And we are hoping that this will prevent your individual comments from having any negative repercussions.
We have IRB approval from our institutional review board at the [INSTITUTION] and I can send you contact information for [NAME] who is the PI on this study or the IRB if you would like that at any time.
Okay?
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: All sound good?
Interviewee: Yep.
Interviewer: Any questions?
Interviewee: Nope.
Interviewer: Okay, perfect.
So those are all the listing exercises that we have.
Now we are going to move into more of a semi-structured interview, so it’s going to be more conversational.
Tollin: That’s fine.
Interviewer: So just to begin, if you wouldn’t mind briefly telling me your background related to hoarding disorder and how you are involved in either research or patient care.
Interviewee: Sure.
Well I conduct research on the topic of hoarding disorder, in particular I conduct research on both the neurobiology of hoarding disorder as well as the cognitive behavioral treatment of hoarding.
I also oversee… [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer: Hello, did I lose you?
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer: Hello?
Hello, I think I lost you for a second there.
Hello.Interviewee: Yes, can you hear me now?
Interviewer: Yes, I can hear you now, sorry about that.
Interviewee: Okay, that’s weird.
Interviewer: Yeah, I don’t know what that was.
Interviewee: All good?
Interviewer: Yeah good.
So, you oversee the clinic, sorry.
Interviewee: I oversee that hoarding treatment protocol and provide patient treatment for hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, you both see patients clinically and you are involved in research in hoarding disorder.
Is that correct?
Interviewee: I don’t see very many patients clinically.
Mostly I oversee the protocol, I supervise the treatment [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer: I am really sorry, I keep losing you and I am not sure if the issue is on my end or if it’s on your end.
Would you like me to try calling you back?
Hello?
Hello?
Hello?
Hello?
Hello?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Can you hear me okay?
Interviewer: Yeah, it’s very strange you go out completely and then you go back completely.
Are you in a place where that could be from your end?
Or is it from my end?
I can try calling you back if that would be helpful?
Interviewee: I don’t know.
Yeah, I am on a cell phone in a car so that could be part of what’s...
Interviewer: You want me to try giving you a call back?
Interviewee: If it happens again let’s try another connection.
Okay?
Interviewer: Okay, that’s fine.
That’s good.
Interviewee: So why don’t we stay CUTS_OUT difficult connection...
Interviewer: Yep, there it goes.
Interviewee: There he is, do you want to try hanging up and calling me back.
Interviewer; Yeah, I will try calling you back from another number, if that’s okay?
That way if it’s my end we will solve the problem.
Sounds good?
Interviewee: That’s fine.
Alright, I will hang up now.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Okay.
Thanks bye.
End Part 1
Start Part 2
Interviewee: I’m good.
Okay, I can hear you just fine.
Interviewer: Okay, it must have been from my end.
I am so sorry about that.
Interviewee: No, no problem at all.
Interviewer: Okay so, you were telling me that you mostly don’t see patients clinically you mostly oversee the treatment protocol.
What is your educational background?
Interviewee: Yeah.
My vocational background.
Well, I am director of the anxiety disorder center at the institute of living.
I am an adjunct professor of psychiatry at Yale university school of medicine.
Interviewer: Okay.
And how long have you been working with patients with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think I have been dealing with hoarding disorder since probably, maybe 2003/2002, something like that.
Interviewer: Okay.
We are going to move into the part of the interview where we talk about the things that set hoarding disorder apart as a disorder from normal kinds of behaviors.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: So, for you when you think about hoarding disorder what are some of the most important differences between normal saving behavior such as perhaps collecting and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well I think that probably the main one that distinguishes any pathology from its normative behavioral cousin is the degree of dysfunction that it entails.
So, you know collecting, normative collecting doesn’t hamper a person’s ability to function.
Whereas hoarding very clearly does and it hampers a person’s ability to conduct activities of daily living, it hampers their ability to be safe in their homes.
That’s the primary one, I think the other one too is that separates hoarding from collecting is the degree of enjoyment and activity that’s involved with collecting.You know people who are collectors, you know view what they are doing as a hobby and get a sense of enjoyment out of their collections and they like to engage in behavior around those kinds of possessions.
You know when people have hoarding disorder, you know the behavior of saving tends not to bring them a whole lot of pleasure, I mean it may bring a sense of emotional comfort, but it’s not exactly fun for them.
And they don’t really engage in the kinds of behaviors associated with collecting, they don’t really pick up their stuff and look at it and play with it, and do things with it.
They mostly let it sit and collect dust in their homes.
Interviewer: So just to repeat back to you what you said and make sure I file it correctly.
There seems in your mind to be two main differences, one has to do with the degree of impairment, and by impairment in this case you mean inability to do very basic things in their home, correct?
Or is there a different way you would define impairment?
Interviewee: That inability to do basic things in the home as well as the ability to live safety in the home.
Interviewer: So, it’s very kind of concretely linked to the home itself and their ability to exist in their home environment.
Interviewee: Yes, I think that’s a big piece of it.
Interviewer: And then the second piece that you mentioned has to do with kind of the activities that go along with the saving behavior and the degree of enjoyment.
Whereas for someone who is collector they use these things, they take pleasure in them where as someone with hoarding disorder doesn’t necessarily engage with the items once they have been acquired.
Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right, and they don’t derive much of a sense of pleasure from their items.
Interviewer: Okay, so your sense is that a person with this disorder doesn’t get as much satisfaction out of their behavior as a collector.
Interviewee: No, I don’t think so.
I think that they are often afraid to give up those things and they may feel a sense of comfort from having those possessions but I don’t think most of them would describe it as fun, you know which is really what collectors have to say.
Interviewer: That’s interesting, so it seems like in your mind this disorder then is much more linked to kind of obsessive compulsive spectrum where you are anxious about giving it up and maybe less related to something like compulsive gambling or compulsive shopping where you are actually enjoying the activity of acquiring, or is that not correct?
Interviewee: Well there’s sort of two different pieces to hoarding.
There is the acquiring and then there’s the saving.
And those are two slightly different issues, and my response to the questions was largely around the issue of saving.
I do tend to think that saving is often quite fear based, but I think the acquiring does have more to do with impulsivity where the person has a difficulty delaying gratification.
As a result, when they see something that catches their eye they are not thinking critically about it.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: So I think there is probably two processes that kick in and that’s why I think hoarding overlaps somewhat with the obsessive compulsive kind of disorders, but I also think it overlaps somewhat with the impulse control disorders.Interviewer: Along the same lines of thinking about the difference between somebody who is exhibiting kind of normal saving behavior and somebody with hoarding disorder.
Can you think of a specific case or cases that you encountered either clinically or in research where you felt it was challenging to diagnosis someone because they were either exhibiting either unusual kinds of behaviors or they were right on that boarder line between clinical and subclinical?
Interviewee: So, you are asking me if I can identify a case where it was not clear whether it was clinical or not?
Interviewer: Yeah.
I mean, can you think of a person where it was a difficult call to say whether were exhibiting a variant of normal behavior or if they truly had hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, sure.
I can think of a few people like that.
Interviewer: And when you encounter cases like that how do you make that distinction, what really makes the difference for you?
Interviewee: I think what really makes the difference for me is the degree of functional impairment.
So, the question really becomes, in the case I’m thinking about, the questions was very much is this person just messy and or they truly engaging in hoarding?
And for me it came down largely to try and understand the degree of impairment that was present in the home.
Interviewer: And how do comorbid diagnosis kind of figure into that problem or do they make it harder or easier in terms of really saying that somebody’s behavior is hoarding behavior?
So, things like [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: I think it makes it harder because you know with the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, not only do all these symptoms have to be present but then you also have to be able to state with some certainty that the behaviors are not the result of some other mental disorder.
And you know if you are looking at something like let’s say clutter in the home there are lots of different mental disorders that can cause that, depression being probably first and foremost among them.
You know if you are looking at difficulty organizing and making decisions a lot things can do that for example attention deficit disorder.
And so, when a person has comorbid psychiatric conditions I think you have this difficulty in which not only trying to separate out whether this behavior is clinical or subclinical you are also trying to determine whether the behavior can be attributed to that other mental disorder.
Interviewer: So that’s kind of the calculus’s.
Is there something else going on?
Do you find that that’s more common than is normal or abnormal?
Is that the more common problem, is which disorder is it and not is this clinical or subclinical?
Interviewee: I’d say those are probably tied.
I think they are both really important and tricky clinical dilemmas.
Interviewer: Okay.
So now kind of continuing to think about making the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, I’d like you to talk through with me some of the DSM 5 criteria?
Interviewee: Sure.Interviewer: Just before we start, when you think about the DSM5 criteria for hoarding disorder are there particular elements of the criteria that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that perhaps different clinicians may apply differently or are perhaps more reliant on something like clinical judgment.
Interviewee: I think probably the hardest one for me is that last one of the symptoms are not attributable to another mental disorder.
You know in one really common example we see of that is when there is a comorbid attention deficit or activity disorder.
Which you know by definition disrupt executive function and difficulty with executive function decision making is really you know one of the major features we’ve seen in hoarding disorder.
So, I think that makes it very tricky.
Interviewer: Okay.
So now I am going to go through the DSM5 criteria and read you a couple of key phrases from the criteria, and I’d just like to know more about your thought process as you apply to individual patients.
So, the first one is: persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value, and so the kind of question we had about your application of this one is: how are you determining value, and how does that the value of the items that are saved play into the diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think it’s very difficult to determine value because it’s so subjective.
You know usually I think in cases of hoarding disorder we find it not terribly difficult because what the person is saving is often garbage.
And so that makes it easy you know the possessions are not like right on the line between valuable and in-valuable there fairly clear.
You know when there is some value to the item that are being saved, I think that it becomes trickier.
The way that the criteria is worded doesn’t necessarily say that the person is saving worthless things, even though that’s what we usually think about.
It just says they are keeping regardless of their actual values.
So, you know a person theoretically could hoard valuable things.
I guess in most clinical cases of hoarding disorder we find even if there are valuable things that are mixed in with things that others would probably call junk.
Interviewer: So, it’s seems like for you the emphasis in this criteria is not so much on the value but that they have the difficulty in discarding or parting.
It doesn’t really matter if they are appropriately valuing items, if they are having difficulty discarding them.
Does that sound right?
Interviewee: I think so.
I have to in my sense of experience, that for most hoarders this need to save is sort of discriminants, you know?
Like I very rarely, I don’t want to say never, but I very rarely meet somebody who is compelled to save only certain things but not others.
You know like when a case of hoarding disorder, like it’s really clear its hoarding, I think what we see is they’re not really making any decisions at all, they are just sort of saving everything.
Interviewer: So, again maybe that’s not so much that they are inappropriately valuing so much as they are not making distinctions in value.
Everything is kind of equally valuable.Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I mean it’s tricky because if you then challenge somebody with hoarding disorder about their possessions and say, why don’t you throw this old soda can away?
Then they will say its valuable, you know in some way.
I don’t know if that was the actual reason they were saving it in the first place, you know?
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: I think the reasons people give when you push them are not necessarily the actual reasons they are doing it.
Interviewer: Right and that’s a question I was actually going to ask you later is: whether you feel the explanations are kind of post doc reasons to justify an underlying pathological need or if kind of the hoarding reasoning or thought processes is what came first or if the thought process is a product of them just justifying what they are doing?
Interviewee: I love that question.
I have friendly disagreements with my colleagues around this issue.
I think my gut reaction is that this is all post talk reasoning.
I think that people hang onto things and I think they are compelled to save things for reasons they themselves don’t fully understand.
I don’t think the average hoarder truly knows why her does what he/she does.
I think that if you push them and you try to get them to throw something away then they will tell you a spec of plausible sounding story about.
But I don’t think a plausible sounding story was the actual reason they saved it in the first place.
Interviewer: Right.
So, for you it’s a behavior that they do and then they watch themselves doing it and then they come up with reasons why they’ve done it.
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean, I tend to think of hoarding a little more behaviorally and neurobiologically rather than cognitively as some of my colleagues do.
Interviewer: That was going to be my follow up is you could imagine two reasons why people are doing things that they don’t understand why they are doing and one is a biological explanation which is that their brain is wired that way and the others is more kind of like a physiological explanation which is that they have unconscious desires that they don’t necessarily have access to?
But it sounds like you kind of got on the biological side of that.
Interviewee: I mean I am all for the psychological explanation but I don’t think that that necessarily means that I am conscious that there are things that I am aware of.
I mean I tend not to draw much of a bright line between biology and psychology, it’s just they are different expressions of the same thing.
But if you think biologically for a minute, you know we know that when people have hoarding disorder and they are looking at a possession and they have to make a decision that they’re saline’s network goes haywire.
And they get frozen and they can’t make a decision and then they save the thing.
And then you can ask them later why did you save it and they will say I didn’t want to waste it or something like that, but you know I suspect that really the reason they saved it and the thing that they can’t quite put their finger on is they couldn’t throw it away because their saline network was so active it overloads the funnel of the more logical part of their brain.
That’s not the sort of thing that most of us can self-report on.Interviewer: Right.
So just to return for a second to the DSM5 criteria..
Interviewee: Yeah yeah.
I’m sorry I am getting way ahead, I apologize.
Interviewer: No no, I appreciate it.
It’s a very interesting question and its very interesting to see what different clinicians have to say.
The next DSM5 criteria I’d like you to think through with me reads quote: “the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congests and clutters active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use” and so the follow up I have on that one is how do you make the determination of how much stuff is too much?
And how do things like the size of their home, or the amount of free space they have access to, or whether other people live with the, play into a diagnosis?
Interviewee: It’s a really good question because when two people engage in the exact same behavior but one has a big house and one has a small house you end up with different levels of clutter.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: And I don’t know if we have a good way around that, I don’t know if we have a good way of resolving that.
We know that without significant clutter there it’s probably not hoarding but it’s important to recognize there are an awful lot of other variables also impact the degree of clutter in the home besides hoarding.
Interviewer: Right, and so another example might be if they live with a partner who cleans up after them.
Do they then not have hoarding disorder because they don’t have clutter?
Interviewee: Right.
Right, well that piece is fortunately… I think that the way the DSM criteria is worded: ‘if clutter is absent only because of the actions of another” so you can get around that one.
But you raise an important question that I don’t think we have resolved very well, which is what about what your current living status is and does that affect whether or not we would diagnosis you with hoarding disorder.Interviewer: Likewise, I kind of wonder how you judge the intended use of space, for instance if you have a guest room that you prefer to use for storage is that compromising intended use, or if you have a desk and the surface of your desk is covered with stuff as opposed to being open for space, you know some people prefer to use their tables to store things, and so I wonder how you judge the kind of intended use part of that criteria?
Interviewee: Yeah, the way that I do it this is just flying by the seed of my pants is just that it’s probably pretty normal to have a space or two that you dedicate to storage.
But there are certain distinctions that one would expect, like that one would be able to cook in a kitchen, or that you would be able to sleep in a bedroom, or that you would be able to walk through just about any room that you have, or that you would be able to sit on living room furniture.
And so, when you see those functions being compromised that’s when it becomes a little clear to me that we are talking about hoarding disorder.
Yeah if somebody just, if somebody’s house was just fine and they just said you know I just have this guest room that I use for storage, I probably wouldn’t call that hoarding disorder.
And similarly, if their house was fine but they said I use my dining room table to store a lot of stuff, that too I might call sloppy but I don’t think its hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Another thing to kind of think through on these criteria is kind of related to what is actually going on with hoarding disorder.
So sometimes people prefer their spaces to be more cluttered, they prefer to have more items around them and sometimes hoarders…
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Clinicians have reported to us that hoarders say they like a space that is kind of more enclosed, that has more, that makes them feel safe because it has more items and is hoarding disorder about saving the space itself?
About creating the space that they want to inhabit or is the space just kind of a byproduct of their need to save?
Interviewee: I think it’s a byproduct, you know again I think that an awful lot of post talk rationalization that occurs.
I mean I don’t doubt that there are some people that prefer more cluttered space but I don’t think that hoarders engage in behaviors because they set out to do that to their homes.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
Okay.
The final DSM5 criteria I just want to think about reads: This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them, and so the question we had about this one is how do you determine distress and particularly how to determine distress in cases where people have low levels of insight about their own behaviors and their own kind of ability to throw things away.
How is this distress kind of assessed by a clinician?
Interviewee: Its primarily based on the persons self-report, and we might ask if I challenged you to throw away a magazine, how would you feel about that and your trying to get a sense of the whether the person would say that would be awful, I would feel like my arms are being ripped off or something like that.But again, it’s tricky because for a lot of the things that you or I own we might very well feel distressed if we might very well feel distressed if we had to get rid of some of them.
But, you know at least when the hoarding case is more clear that level of distress is far more acute then makes sense, then you or I would expect to feel.
Interviewer: And do you find that, so we are going to get into the next section of the interview that is all about insight.
So, kind of to lead into that, do you find that when your patients have what we would call low insight that they deny stress associated with discarding?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: That they aren’t even aware of how they would feel if they had to discard?
Interviewee: Well, let me take that back.
I don’t know about that.
I think when I see low insight patients I think they don’t think they have a problem with saving.
And they think that everything is fine but I think they still exhibit both verbally and sometimes non-verbally a heightened anxiety or anger or sadness response when they have to let go of something.
Interviewer: Let’s take a step back before we get into this discussion about insight.
As I’m sure you know a lot of literatures sort of describe hoarding disorders as having low insight or have problems getting into treatment because of insight.
How would you define insight?
Interviewee: I would define insight according to three different variables.
And I think there are probably three separate constructs.
The first is anosognosia, and anosognosia which mostly is the kind of [INAUDIBLE] insight you see in neurological disorders is where the person fails to recognize that there is a deficit.
AND that’s a very common kind of poor insight we see in hoarding, those are the non-treatment seeking hoarders that are often referred through the courts or other branches of social services.
The second kind of poor insight is called overvalued ideation, and that’s the kind of hoarding insight you might see in OCD or perhaps more commonly in schizophrenia.
So, in overvalued ideation the person is aware they have an illness and at the same time they also believe everything they think is right.
The third kind of poor insight, I just refer to as defensiveness, because I think of some of the behaviors we refer to as being low insight are really just a person trying to get you off their back.
Interviewer: So, they may be aware that they have a problem but just not want to deal with it?
Interviewee: They don’t want to acknowledge it to you because they don’t want to deal with it.
Interviewer: And do you find that with your patients that any of these are more or less common?
I mean which do you see most often?
Are they mutually exclusive?
Interviewee: They are not mutually exclusive.
I think the ones that I see the most often are the overvalued ideation and the defensiveness.
But there is a reason for that and that is because I think the people with anosognosia are not the ones that come in for treatment, and I am less likely to meet them.
Although I suspect there is probably a lot of them out there.Interviewer: So, the anosognosia patients are the ones that are not coming in for treatment, they’re the ones that don’t even know there is something wrong.
Whereas people who are defensive…
Interviewee: Right.
That’s the people who says I am not a hoarder.
Interviewer: Right.
Whereas people who are defensive or who have overvalued ideation are at some level aware of the fact that they have a problem but either don’t want to deal with the problem or continue to believe unreasonable things despite the fact that they’re…
Interviewee: Precisely.
Definitely.
Interviewer: In terms of overvalued ideation, if you were to describe what that’s like in hoarding disorders is that like somebody who really deeply knows that they have too much stuff but who deeply believes that whatever they are saving is still valuable.
Is that what you mean by that?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Right that’s the person that you would, that at an extreme level you would refer to them as delusional.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: So, the person really and truly believes in their heart of hearts that this is a very valuable thing that they’re holding.
Interviewer: And does that tend to take the form of “delusion” where they truly believe it has monetary value, or aesthetic value, or it’s has emotional value, like what is that delusion like?
Interviewee: I think it can vary I think probably the one I hear most often is either it has utility or that it has monetary value like, I’m going to sell it.
Interviewer: Okay and what about indifference?
Do you feel like there is a role for indifference in thinking about insight or is that something…
Interviewee: Yeah, I think of indifference as being sort of on the anosognosia spectrum.
So, like in extreme anosognosia the person has no idea that they have a deficit.
In lesser forms of anosognosia they’re aware there is a deficit but they are not terribly concerned about it, I think of that as sort of a lesser form of anosognosia.
That reflects the persons level of self-awareness.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
So, when you think about the patients you have encountered either at treatment or research, and I guess probably thinking most closely about treatment, and you encounter a patient who has very low insight.
What is your process for helping that patient to gain insight or to get closer to gaining insight?
How do you help patients do that?
Interviewee: It’s different.
It’s difficult, I tend to use strategies from motivational interviewing.
In which there are a couple things that happen, one is I am often reflecting back what the person is saying so they can hear themselves and sometimes that helps them to hear what they are saying doesn’t make a whole lot of sense.
And then I use the strategy of developing discrepancy between the persons goals and desired life and their current behavior.
Interviewer: So, that’s just kind of to help them to see, to perceive that they have a problem is really what you are getting at?
Interviewee: Right.
Right.
I’m not necessarily trying even to treat their hoarding at this point.
What I am trying to do is talk to them about a situation and see if I can get them to generate a little bit of understanding that their behavior is not necessarily in line with what they want to get out of life.Interviewer: And does that change depending on what sort of problem with insight they have?
For instance, if somebody’s chief providence with overvalued ideation they might be aware there is a deficit but still have a delusion.
Interviewee: Well frankly, in a case like that I’m a little bit different.
I don’t have to convince you that you have a hoarding problem you are already know you have a hoarding problem.
In case of overvalued ideation, I use more cognitive restructuring strategies.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: In which my aim is more to help you critically evaluate what you are thinking and see if it’s realistic and maybe even do some hypothesis testing.
So that you can get a reality check against your thoughts.
And if the person is more defensive that’s when I’m probably going to use, it’s going to be a little bit more of the motivational interviewing kind of procedure where I am going to be non-threatening and non-directive to see if I can get them to start talking about the problem in a relaxed manner.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
And do you see these different kinds of insight as perhaps different points along a progress, do you feel like people start out with anosognosia and move towards defensiveness or overvalued ideation or do you think that that’s not necessarily how it works?
Interviewee: I don’t think that’s necessarily how it works.
I think there are three different constructs.
Arguably you could say that some are worse than other but I don’t that its necessary that a person moves from one to the next.
Interviewer: And when you think about the patients that you have seen come in on their own who have a least some sort of level of insight already.
Do you have any sense of how people gain that insight outside of a clinical setting, is it through interactions with family members or do they come to it on their own somehow?
Interviewee: I think it’s a mixture of both.
I mean certainly we have some hoarding patients whose insight is pretty good and they just realize on their own that this is a problem and they wanted to do something about it.
We have some patients who have discovered it by watching television, they watch hoarders and that was enough that it kind of cued something in their brain that says “wow, maybe my problem isn’t as bad as that but maybe I do kind of have a problem”.
And I think there is another group of people who have to get to that level of awareness through their family members, you know by having family members repeatedly express their concerns to them.
Interviewer: And when you think about the patients you have come in either because they have been motivated by their family or some self-motivated, how long do these patients tend to say their behavior has gone on before they come in for treatment?
Interviewee: Well most of them say they have been engaging in this behavior since adolescents or early adulthood.
And our average patient with hoarding disorder is somewhere around 55 years old, so I think the average patient that we see says they have been hoarding for at least 30-40 years before they come in for treatment with us.Interviewer: And so, kind of to think through that as kind of a life course of an illness, that’s kind of a really long time to have something like hoarding disorder.
Is your sense of it that its worsens with age, is it more that they just accumulate items and it becomes more and more impairing?
How does it progress or how does it change over the course of a patient’s life?
Interviewee: Good questions.
The short answer is I don’t know.
The longer answer is we’ve got some guesses, one is I think there is a certain level of this behavior that worsens with age.
I think that as you age it becomes for some people I think their brains may age at an accelerated rate and it becomes difficult for them to employ executive functions.
I think for some people, and these aren’t mutually exclusive, it takes a long time to build up clutter till it reaches some sort of terminal point.
But I also think a lot of it is that as you age you have fewer and fewer people to help you keep your behavior in line.
So, I suspect that one of the reasons that we tend not to see a whole lot of child clinical cases even though behavior probably starts at childhood is because you have parents that are constantly on you to clean up your room or they’re cleaning it up themselves.
And then when you move out of your parents’ house and you get married and you have a spouse who’s on you and helps you to take care of it.
But you know I think what you tend to see is that these problems worsen as you have fewer and fewer exterior supports.
So, when you no longer have your parents in the house, when you no longer have a spouse in the house, when you no longer have adults, when you no longer have your children in the house I think what we see is a behavior begins to spike following those kinds of absences.
So, you have fewer people putting on the brakes.
Interviewer: Right, so there is maybe a progressive aspect but also a social aspect and as your social life changes over your life course the manifestation of your disorder might worsen.
Interviewee: I think so, and there’s an environmental aspect, which is just that it takes a long time for the stuff to reach a critical mass.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
For the final kind of part of the interview we are doing, we are almost done so I want to be respectful of your time.
We are just going to talk about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder have for their behavior and this is a little bit of a difficult set of questions because we are asking you to think about what your patients think or what your patients say?
And the purpose of this is when we do our patient interviews to compare clinicians’ ideas about what their patients are thinking to what the patients actually respond.
So, these are kind of adapted from the brown assessment of belief scale.So, the first question is if we were to ask one of your patients “what do you think has caused you to have these behaviors and do they have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause, what is your sense that your patients believe is causing their hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think that my patients would believe there is a psychiatric cause.
I think most of the people now it’s because I’m seeing people that already know that they are hoarders and have agreed to seek treatment.
But I think that some group of hoarders understand that they have a psychiatric illness and that’s the reason they are saving things.
Interviewer: And is your sense that they believe that it’s a biological illness, that there is a biological cause for their hoarding disorder or do they have psychological explanations for it?
Interviewee: I think most would have more psychological than biological explanations.
Interviewer: So they would say “I have this disorder because I had an experience or because I”…
Interviewee: Because I experienced trauma in my life or something like that.
Yeah, I think a lot of them would say that.
Interviewer: Okay.
The next one is: how convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding?
So, do you think that the patients you tend to see are fairly convinced that they need to keep their items or that some bad will come of discarding?
That’s kind of adapted from OCD.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think that most of them are fairly convinced that they need to save at least some of these items and/or that something bad will happen if they discard the items.
Interviewer: Okay.
So again, this is kind of a broad question but, when you think about your patients with hoarding disorder do you see any kind of potential impact of maybe cultural forces that associate value and self-worth with consumption, material possession, ownership of items?
Do you think that that influences hoarding disorder at all or do you think that’s just kind of a side product or not related?
Interviewee: I think that cultural factors may shape the way that behavior of hoarding disorder manifests.
I don’t think that they are the cause of the hoarding disorder and that’s because I think you see that the prevalence of hoarding looks pretty similar across different cultures.
But I think that cultural factors may influence how those behaviors are expressed.
Interviewer: And what about, again this is kind of perhaps an abstract thing to think about.
Ideas that associate saving behaviors with memory, so needing items as souvenirs or jogs for memory.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: What do you think is the connection between memory and saving behavior in hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well its funny because you know most people with hoarding disorder have intact memory.
So, what I think they have is very low memory confidence, but they tend not to trust their memory.
They tend to worry that they are not going forget things even though, as far as we can tell, their memory is intact.
Interviewer: So, they have anxiety about forgetting?
Interviewee: I think they have anxiety about forgetting and I think, again it depends on whether you believe that those reasons are really the causes of the behavior or they are justification.
I do think people hang on to things because they have sort of warm fuzzy sentimental feel about them when they touch them.
But I’m getting off course.But, yeah low confidence in memory I think is a big one as opposed to a memory deficit itself.
Interviewer: Okay, our final question is extremely broad, and I’m sure that we could probably talk for an hour just about this one.
But if you were to say what you think the biggest things are that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder or the biggest unanswered questions in your mind?
And again, that’s a very big question but.
Interviewee: Yeah.
All of it?
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Literally we don’t know anything about hoarding.
Well I take that back.
We don’t know nothing, but we know very little.
I still don’t think we’ve understood what causes hoarding disorder.
I mean we know what some of the correlates are, but I think we are a long way from understanding what kinds of things actually make hoarding disorder occur.
And I think when it comes to treatment you know we’ve got a treatment that’s only about half way good and still doesn’t result in remission for most of the patients that receive it.
So, I think that the other big piece is we need to understand what kind of treatments might be more affective then what we currently have.
Interviewer: Okay those are some big questions to answer in the future.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Well I really appreciate your time.
That’s all the questions that I have for you today.
Interviewee: Sure, my pleasure.