Interviewee: Who do encounter this primarily not as psychiatrists or psychologists because by the very nature of these, the people that… It’s a very small subset of hoarders that actually seek out care.
And so, when the original literature on hoarding was written, before they were even calling hoarding a thing, a disorder certainly, it was people that were self selected going to OCD hoarding clinics.
So, that’s how it got sort of linked in to OCD, because that’s who was seeking treatment.
And it took a long time to sort of shed that because that’s where all of the original work was done and it made sense because that’s where it first appeared.
As everybody has learned and as you certainly have pointed out, that’s just one small piece of the puzzle and it’s probably not the predominant piece of the puzzle.
So, I think this idea of exploring the range of possibilities out there is very anthropological.
[INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer: Yeah, so the original purpose of this project was to try to do two things.
One was to try to capture the way that clinical knowledge on this topic has [INAUDIBLE] and changed and how different kinds of providers think about this disorder differently.
Especially, because it’s just now, as you pointed out, been brought out from under the OCD umbrella.
Also to solve the problem that you brought up which is not necessarily solved, but to speak to the problem that you brought up which is most people with this disorder are not like “Oh my gosh, I have a huge problem and I have to go sort this out with a doctor.”
Quite the contrary, they’re very resistant in many cases to seeing their behavior as problematic and very resistant to getting treatment.
So, they’re thinking about their behavior in such a different way than their clinicians that they’re coming to such different conclusions.
I think that for that reason the people who, we’ll get into the course of the interview, but a lot of times clinicians kind of hit a wall when you ask them about people who have low insight into their disorder because they’ve never encountered any patients who have low insight into their disorder, because if they’re seeing a psychiatrist or psychologist they already have insight into their disorder to some extent.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Self-fulfilling prophecyInterviewer: Yeah, exactly right.
So that was part of the reason of kind of branching out and trying to talk to people who might be seeing CUTS_OFF.
Interviewee: Let me give you just a tad bit of background on this too–
Interviewer: Sure.
Interviewee: –because again whether this even fits in this is a separate issue, I think, rather an important one.
The reason we got started on this, this whole sort of research effort began, was because I had encountered as a shelter director when I was a shelter, I’m a veterinarian by training and I was a running a small animal shelter outside of Philadelphia.
We also invested cases of animal neglect or abuse and mistreatment.
So, we got this call to go visit and look into this house and the call was made by the Pizza Hut.
These two ladies, the complaint was that there were two ladies eating out of their dumpster and bringing the food into the Pizza Hut to eat and then going back to their house to sort of tucked off the street a little bit behind the Pizza Hut.
So, they weren’t really concerned about the ladies at all, but they were very concerned about the ladies bringing the thrown away Pizza Hut food back into the Pizza Hut and the nature of the complaint and the reason they called us was because they said well [INAUDIBLE] and there’s dog problem here.
So they wrote this into doing something maybe they couldn't get anybody else to look into it, maybe other people have blown them off which is not uncommon, but they found us so we looked into it from a [INAUDIBLE] perspective.
When we got there and finally got into the house and met the ladies, we saw what was going on and we were just dumbfounded.
We had never seen anything like this in our lives and it didn’t have a name and just didn’t know how to deal with it and basically got blown off by everybody that we tried to talk to about it.Interviewer: Sorry to interrupt, what was going on in the house?
Interviewee: It was just filled with cats, the water and electricity were turned off, every room was stacked to the [INAUDIBLE] with cat cages, it was filthy, there was clutter everywhere, the cat cages some of them had groceries in them, sometimes with the cats, sometimes [INAUDIBLE].
It was an unlivable environment.
The ladies allegedly were sleeping in a tent in the front yard while they had this hoard of cats inside.
So, they were taken away finally by the police and hospitalized for observation or whatever, but that’s where the whole thing broke down and then at that point we were left with 72 cats and 13 dogs and didn’t know what to do.
Nobody would talk to us, none of the clinicians would address it, they didn’t wanna deal with the animal fees and it was a very frustrating and difficult situation all the way around.
So, fast forward another ten years when I was a faculty member I said well this is the time to start thinking about looking into this again and thinking about what the hell went on there.
It can’t be the only case.
This again is just an element of serendipity because people used to just call them animal collectors which seems like very poor terminology to me because they really weren’t [INAUDIBLE] coin collectors, you know whatever.
This was clearly not a benign hobby, this was pathological any way one looked at it from human wellness standpoint or from the animal standpoint.
I started [INAUDIBLE] and trying to see if I could find a comparable thing in literature and couldn’t.
But then my mentor at [NAME] sort of got intrigued by this and he started doing some poking around and he found the literature on hoarding which was very comparable kind of behavior, it seemed to capture the pathology.
In terms of serendipity, two of the top people in the country at that point who were really pioneering this work were [NAME] and [NAME] and they’re both local in Massachusetts.
So I sent them copies and snippets of information and said, “You know I’ve got a video tape here of what this behavior looks like.
I’ve never seen it described anywhere, would you guys be interested and coming and taking a look at it?” And they did.
So that’s where it all began basically.
We started to informally collaborate and share ideas and we started looking at this problem through the lens of human-object hoarding because that was the most pertinent way, the most pertinent out there in literature that seemed comparable as a window to explore it.
So, we called it hoarding because it seems to have the same features, many of the same features, many of the same behaviors, sometimes you have both objects and animals hoarded as well, so lots of similarities certainly.
It’s a fair question as to whether or not this is really the same behavior or a different behavior.
I really don’t fully understand it, but up to this point at least it has been a useful thing, it’s been a useful lens to look at it.
I think we’ve seen more similarities than differences.
But, until the DSM came out it really wasn’t something that anybody really thought of as being connected with object hoarding and because DSM was very equivocal in mentioning it.
They didn’t mention it because we were asked to submit some position papers saying why it should be included and their mention of it, I think, was a testament to the amount of work that we have done, but it certainly is not by any means a sufficient body of research.
So, they kind of left it somewhat equivocal about where it sits.
They had it listed as a specifier possibly, but they left it open and I think that was fair in the state of the research to leave it open as an unanswered question.Interviewer: And prior to that, it hadn’t been in any previous editions of the DSM at all.
Interviewee: Oh god no. Well, hoarding disorder.
At that point, it was listed hoarding was dealt with under OCD, because of the way it was described earlier.
The original sample of people who were hoarding were people who felt presented to OCD clinics, with OCD hoarding disorder.
And at that point people didn’t realize that there was OCD hoarding, but that was only a minority of the hoarding behavior.
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Interviewee: So, that’s the short history.
Interviewer: Yeah, tell me about your work developing the research on animal hoarding.
Tell me about what your next steps were and how and if you’ve been able to build a body of literature.
How do you find animal hoarders?
What does your research look like in this topic right now?
Interviewee: Well we’re not doing anything now.
Our group worked together collectively for about ten years and then everybody, you know time passes and you know it sort of finished our joint work.
People change jobs, one person passed away, that sort of thing.
Interviewer: So, how many cases did you end up seeing while you were working on this topic?
Interviewee: Well again it depends on what you mean by cases.
The hard consortium didn’t actually quote-on-quote seek patients.
We, this was an informal research group and we studied it through a variety of different lenses.
So, we talked about cases, we shared ideas about [INAUDIBLE], we shared thoughts about treatment.
But everybody was doing their own thing [INAUDIBLE] information sharing.
So, [NAME] and [NAME] were studying object hoarders, but then they were bringing their insights about object hoarding to us.
We would weigh in, we would talk about how does this seem to fit, does it fit, does it not fit, what are we [INAUDIBLE] questions.
So, everybody had their own sort of angle of researcher thing that they brought to the general discussion.
In terms of me personally the way I saw cases, again I was working, well not at that point I wasn’t, but I still do see a lot of people in the animal shelter world doing investigations.
So, when they would get a report of a case et cetera, et cetera then often they would bring those cases to our attention and we would either do case reports or talk to the investigators, there was a few times we would go out on active cases, so it would just vary.
Interviewer: So, you kind of would see them in the course of talking to people and your job as a veterinarian.
Interviewee: I would see them as the course of a law enforcement investigation basically.
Interviewer: Okay, so you would be called in at that point.
Interviewee: Yeah.Interviewer: So, let’s just talk through a couple of issues that pertain to object hoarding, but I want to hear you talk them through how you think they pertain specifically to cases of animal hoarding.
So, you said that in the past these cases have been called animal collectors.
So, for you, what is it that makes a distinction between someone who simply has a lot of animals, or who enjoys having a lot of animals, or who even collects animals if there were such a thing as an object collector, and somebody who is an animal hoarder.
How do you make that distinction in your mind?
Interviewee: Well that’s pretty much established in the research and that’s been laid out very clearly in terms of the definition that we used and looking at any of our work [INAUDIBLE] it is a multi-part sort of thing.
Someone who has more than the typical number of animals, somebody who is keeping them under suboptimal or even inhumane conditions, somebody who doesn’t recognize their failure to provide proper care and they also persisted their behavior despite their failures.
So, it kind of was a four-part definition.
Interviewer: So, I guess I have a couple of sub-questions and I apologize this is not at all my, clearly I want to look at the literature, but I guess what I’m wondering is how you made calls like more than a typical number of animals.
I mean do you ever have trouble because people are, for example living on a piece of land that’s really large and have something like a farm, but then have a lot of animals?
Or is it always a really clear–
Interviewee: Well that’s why the [INAUDIBLE] piece is only one piece of it.
You can’t be hoarding animals if you have two dogs.
If you got a problem of even neglect going on, but you can’t be talking about hoarding with [INAUDIBLE] you got to have some large-ish number.
But the way you distinguish it from say a farming operation is because you’ve got again these substandard conditions, you’ve got people who are compulsive and desire to keep acquiring and controlling the animals [INAUDIBLE].
There’s really no source of confusion with a farming operation.
They’re pretty clear-cut.
It doesn’t mean that something that looks like a farm couldn’t be hoarding because there are farm hoarders where again they do it with a large number of agriculture animals.
There wouldn’t be any problems in the field I don’t think distinguishing it from using a four-part definition I’ve given, we never would have encountered any gray areas I don’t think, it’s pretty clear cut.Interviewer: So, you’ve never encountered a case with animal hoarding where you were like not really sure if this really counts as that, there’s a lot of animals…
Interviewee: Well, I mean again recognize that other than for purposes of conversation there’s no usefulness to the language hoarding.
It doesn’t serve anybody other than to be able to talk amongst yourself and say oh yeah we have a hoarding case that we’re dealing with and that’s shorthand jargon to explain what’s going on.
There’s no advantage.
It’s not listed in a cruelty [INAUDIBLE] where you have something to gain some brownie points or some utility by the label.
If it becomes a cruelty case, you are still going to prosecute it under the cruelty laws which are very specific specifications for failure to comply necessary standards of food, water, shelter, sanitary environment, veterinary care.
But when you’re dealing with the case operationally, you’re gonna just say to your friend or coworker, we have a hoarding case and that captures the whole thing in a nutshell.
Interviewer: So from a law-enforcement perspective it really doesn’t matter if they’re a hoarder or not as long as it’s neglect and it’s cruelty, it’s cruelty.
It doesn’t matter if they’re technically a hoarder or if they’re technically not.
Interviewee: There’s no advantage and in fact there’s a lot of disadvantages, sadly.
Because of the way the law requires it to [INAUDIBLE] house, what I’ve got to do to prove cruelty is that the conditions are [INAUDIBLE].
In order for me to prove the way the case will be charged and the way I would prove it is I would have to take a picture and have an accurate identification of that gray cat, that gray male two-year-old cat at that particular place and time who did not have proper sanitation, shelter, food, water, or veterinary care.
See what I mean?
So I would have to do that for every single cat.
Interviewer: So the fact that there are seventy-two cats doesn’t make it a difference that you have document each separate case.
Interviewee: Technically it does not.
I wish it did.
That would make our lives vastly easier in terms of dealing with the cases, but no. As far as the law goes it is a case-by-case-by-case violation.
Interviewer: So this is a little bit of a, maybe you just don’t know the answer to this question, but I suspect you might have some idea.
What happens to people who are animal hoarders after their animals are taken away from them?
Do they just start accumulating animals again?
Interviewee: The truth of [INAUDIBLE], the old adage you know we always said they would have a cat on the way home from court.
Because the compulsion is so strong in most of these cases that unless you incarcerate people, physically prevent them in some way from doing it, this is a deep-seeded addiction type behavior and they’re going to, they need to do it.
It is a very deep-seeded thing and so they are going to acquire more animals most of the time.
[INAUDIBLE] It’s going to be a local case in a local community.
They’re going to say you are prohibited from owning any animals or owning more than two animals or whatever it is in this town for say two years or three years or five years or whatever it may be.
But that doesn’t stop them from picking up their toys and going to play in another town basically.Interviewer: Have you ever had to take animals from the same person multiple times?
Interviewee: Absolutely.
Interviewer: So, they just kind of move around and accumulate and get busted and move around and accumulate.
What about on the other end temporarily?
Do you have any idea with the people that you encounter how long it’s been going on or when it started?
Interviewee: That’s sort of a [INAUDIBLE] question because all of our research is really from cross-sectional information at the time of the case, so we don’t have a longitudinal.
A longitudinal is very hard to get.
Where we do have some insight to that is from some conversation with family members.
So you’ll talk to a child, and the child will say, or an adult child will say, “Oh yeah my mother started this fifteen years ago and it drove my father away or my father died and my mother started this.
We’ve tried everything.”
[INAUDIBLE] Often what they would do is recount some traumatic event that seemed to precipitate.
Sometimes the person themselves because often times they are quite talkative and they do want to share especially if they talk about their animals [INAUDIBLE] in their lives.
Often times they would volunteer to speak.
It’s really hard to know how much of it was true and how much of it wasn’t.Interviewer: What would they say?
Interviewee: Well here’s an example in a book that you can get at [INAUDIBLE] it was written by [NAME] and [NAME] she’s a journalist and he’s a sociologist.
They looked at the case of [NAME] dogs and so they ended up spending a lot of time interviewing her and listening to her side of the story so to speak.
And she had all kinds of [INAUDIBLE] things about being in the Navy, studying to be a doctor or a nurse, or a veterinarian, studying law, just a whole series of things that didn’t make a whole lot of sense in her life.
She started telling all these tales about trauma, and so there was a trigger warning here.
I think the important thing is that she believes it’s true.
She claims that when she was young she was serially molested by her grandfather and the dogs were often the only comfort she had afterward, so she would go to her dogs for solace.
One time the dog actually, through barking and jumping, interrupted the attack and then the parents got rid of all the dogs.
[INAUDIBLE] And then she recounts a tale of being molested by a farmhand that worked on the farm and he forced her to marry him and then when she was pregnant she, I guess the farmhand left her or something, and then when she was pregnant the mother sent her to the barn to have the baby.
After she delivered the baby alone the mother came in and took the baby away and she never saw it again.
So, who knows you know?
There were lots of stuff in there.
But I think what’s relevant is that whether it happened or not she felt the urge to tell that story.
Presumably she also believed it because she felt it was important to tell that story.
Those kinds of stories are not uncommon, so if you can actually engage people and start talking.
I don’t have any frame of knowledge to know how many people of the general population who are now hoarders will also tell the same story.
My thought is probably nowhere near as many.
I think these stories of terrible trauma are over-represented in animal hoarders, but as they are in many other kinds of [INAUDIBLE] behavior.
It’s just what we don’t know is why do some people if they’re going to accept the premise that trauma is a contributory factor, why do they go in that direction instead of abusing drugs, alcohol, or all the other things people do when they’re trying to cope.Interviewer: No, absolutely.
And I wonder if you could take a step back and think through that for me.
You know if you were to really think about where you are in your understanding of what causes this.
So, for example, some clinicians will talk about hoarding as being a biological impulse whereas some will talk about it as a response to trauma or a coping mechanism.
So, it really seems to be a question of whether the justification for saving animals is a real justification or whether it’s kind of a post-hope justification for some underlying biology that has gone wrong.
Do you have a sense for…?
Interviewee: I think it’s probably complex and I don’t think this necessarily has to be a one-size-fits-all explanation.
We certainly do see cases where people start out with good intentions and trying to do the right thing, whether it’s some kind of rescue or shelter and saving the animals.
But then either because of space, if they can’t adopt enough of them out, choose to start becoming more selective and they don’t want to let the animals go, the collection starts to rise, and then at some point they do spin out of control where they’re just overwhelmed and they have far too many and they don’t know how to get out of that.
[INAUDIBLE] Hard to know, but there’s a lot of self-type of reward I guess is what I’m saying by doing it, both internal and external and those rewards probably differ a little bit by different people.
Now some people may know people that are more passive about it, some people tend to be more passive acquirers whereas the lady that lives at the end of the road, dead-end road, and everybody drops off strays there because they know that she’ll take it in.
But then you have people who are more actively soliciting animals through bulletin boards or social media now etc and deliberately trying to build their collection.
Some of them are not sole actors but they become group actors and they seem to almost have a cult-like following of enablers and different animals.
So, there’s many different variations out there.
What we see is the common denominator in the end-behavior.
I think it’s premature and probably not productive to assume that identical processes always lead to that end-behavior.
It’s just the end-behavior that we can recognize so that’s the label we end up using.
Interviewer: That’s a really good point.
I wonder if you could talk me through some of the explanations that people give for their behavior when they’re confronted by charges of animal neglect.
Interviewee: There usually isn’t an explanation.
Actually, I think you can get it on our website.
If not, if you look at the [NAME] website we have a publication list that I can certainly send you anything you’d like to see.
My colleague [NAME] the sociologist actually did a whole paper analyzing excuses.
So, he talked about that, but a lot of times there’s so little insight that you could be standing there, this has happened to me personally, when you literally pass dead animals on the floor and they’re looking around not seeing any problem.
So that’s how profound the lack of insight can be.
So, it’s some place [INAUDIBLE] irrelevant but [NAME] did a whole paper of excuses.Interviewer: I will definitely look at that.
I would be really interested to see that paper.
This is all very fascinating.
So, we’ve talked a lot about how you kind of came to work [NAME] and [NAME] about the similarities with material object hoarding and I wonder if you could talk me through some of what you perceive are the differences, or the bigger differences, between material object hoarding and animal hoarding.
Interviewee: Well the biggest, probably the biggest difference, unless proven otherwise, is that animals provide for a two-way relationship.
I suppose you could psychologically invent a two-way reciprocal relationship with objects.
Maybe your stuff sort of gives you a positive feeling back [INAUDIBLE] with a living creature that’s going to react to you.
Interviewer: So, that’s the biggest thing is the animal’s response.
So, the hoarder is looking for a response from the animal?
Interviewee: Yeah and it may well be again that we don’t fully understand the range of etiological of backgrounds.
Is it all trauma related?
It seems like a lot of it is trauma-related.
I don’t know how much of object hoarding is trauma related.
Some of it is, but I don’t know that all of it is.
So, I think that balance of trauma even with animal hoarding there seems to be a lot of trauma.
Again we don’t have formal psychological studies for people we’ve interviewed and would be able to come up with a diagnosis of accurate histories.
It’s just this [INAUDIBLE] from the people who are willing to talk to us when they’re willing to talk to us or what family members tell us.
Interviewer: I guess we talked about a little bit that most of the trajectory that you see with people who have this problem is that they get their animals taken away and then they go when they’re able to go and get new animals.
Have you had experience with people who have either gained insight into their problem or else been referred to you or sought treatment for this in a way that has worked for them?
Interviewee: So, my colleague [NAME] is probably the person who has done the most with that kind of work.
She’s retired now, but she worked with both of the law enforcement agencies in Massachusetts that intervene in these cases.
They used to refer her and she got a lot of court order referrals.
She did say that there were some people where she felt she made reasonable progress with and did develop insight and were able to change their behavior.
But I think overall our sample size is so ad hoc and small that you have to be careful generalizing.Interviewer: What’s your sense for how common this is?
Or even just, not to ask you to overgeneralize, I recognize that you kind of see this in a particular space, but are there particular kinds of people who end up becoming animal hoarders?
Is it a problem of rural or urban or poverty or women or men?
Interviewee: Everywhere, it is everywhere.
It is more women than men, for sure, and then they relate to the trauma issue so much of it is sexual and most victims of sexual trauma are women, not exclusively, but most.
So that could be one explanation for the gender imbalance, but beyond the gender imbalance it just crosses everything, it crosses all demographics and socioeconomic.
You have rich people, you have poor people, you have highly educated people, you have relatively uneducated people, you got colored people.
It’s a question of manifestation.
You know, wealthy people can hide it a little easier.
There have been cases where people have filled up one house with cats and when that one filled up they went and bought another house.
Your run of the mill hoarder is not going to have the resources to do that.
Beyond the gender imbalance, it crosses, I wouldn’t be able to generalize at all.
It just could be anyone, anywhere.
Interviewer: There definitely isn’t the data to make generalizations at this point, I understand that.
Again, just thinking from your experience, do people tend to like one type of animal over another.
So they’ll exclusively take cats, or a particular kind of cat?
Interviewee: Absolutely.
Interviewer: Or does it tend to be like difficulty saying no to any animal?
Interviewee: No, no, no. I mean I’m not going to say it’s a [INAUDIBLE] rule, but it certainly preponderates where people do one or the other.
Now, the first case I saw that I told you about that was maybe a little bit of [INAUDIBLE].
The lady had thirteen dogs and seventy-two cats.
Most of the time I would say there’s a predominant animal and there may be some other ancillary animals that are part of the piece.
But it does seem like one type or one class of animal maybe they’re a farm animal, cattle or goats, but there’s especially when we find a domestic farm, it tends to be one or the other most of the time, at least predominantly if not exclusively.
Interviewer: And do people tend to once they have chosen what animal it is that they’re acquiring, do they tend to distinguish within that?
Like they’re looking for a particular kind of dog that they want to acquire or a particular breed?
Interviewee: There are people who again and we didn’t really investigate them [INAUDIBLE] but there was a subset that we started to talk about with a disorder was somebody that was at one point a professional dog breeder and a particular breed they were focusing on may be the type of the dog they showed and somewhere along the line it degenerated and they ended up being a hoarder with that breed.Interviewer: That’s very fascinating especially because a lot of the conversation that I’ve had with people about material hoarding, the clinicians will talk about as a problem of being able to distinguish between things that are valuable and things that are not valuable.
So, they’ll keep everything indiscriminately because they can’t make that, they don’t have the ability to say “Okay, I don’t need to save this.”
But it sounds like with animal hoarding there’s a lot more seeking out, so that maybe is a question I should ask you.
Interviewee: Well, I think it’s possible that situations are not entirely terrible, because with animals it’s a very different thing to care for a dog than to care for a cat.
For example, dogs have to go outside.
If you don’t live somewhere where the dogs can, and you may have generated a point where the dogs poop all over the house.
At some point if someone’s going to say “Gee, I’m going to take care of this kind of animal,” they have to be in a living situation that sort of [INAUDIBLE] something to that.
So, then it sort of [INAUDIBLE] hard to take a cat to a park.
You can fill it with cats pretty easy, dogs a little bit harder, but farm animals are much harder.
On the flip side, if you have a farm [INAUDIBLE] running around just because there’s no barriers to entry.
So, with certain living situations there are barriers to acquire a certain kind of animal.
Interviewer: So, do you feel like that’s how people make the decision?
They just acquire whatever they can and sometimes their limited in their acquisition?
Interviewee: I don’t know if anybody actually knows, but I think my own personal opinion is people have an affiliation just like they do with pets.
Some people are dog people, some people are cat people, some people are both and I don’t know if anybody really understands that’s a pretty innate kind of thing, you know who you fall in love with and that’s really what it’s all about.
Interviewer: So it’s that kind of a question, it might just be what people prefer.
That is very interesting.
So, do you feel like, again this is a question that has come up for object hoarders, so some people see object hoarding as having negative associations with getting rid of things, so they feel bad when they throw things out.
Whereas for other people it has more of a positive acquisition, you feel good when you get something.
What is your sense of this with animal hoarding?
Is it more of an inability to discard?
Interviewee: I think both.
But I don’t think discard and I think that’s one place where the comparison falls apart.
If you’re truly going to think of discard as when you discard something it’s sort of worthless trash and I don’t think any of the people feel that their animals are “worthless trash.”
So, if you want to say that it’s hard for them to put them in new homes, absolutely true, but I don’t think the parallel with object hoarding when you start using language like discard is appropriate.
Interviewer: That’s interesting.
Interviewee: I mean it’s also a control issue too where if you’re a caregiver and your whole sort of [INAUDIBLE] is centered around being perceived as a caregiver and providing care, then you can’t provide care unless you have something that needs it.Interviewer: Yeah, that is very interesting.
So, part of it is this identity of being a person who is a caregiver so identifying oneself as kind of like a good person because they’re taking care of so many dogs and cats, it’s a personal identity.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: So I’m wondering, do people who are hoarding animals also hoard objects?
Do you find that when you go into the home it’s cluttered and their car is full of stuff and also they have seventy-two cats?
Interviewee: Well again, it depends on how one defines the term hoarding because there’s a difference between just the accumulation of stuff in my mind versus, because they just didn’t throw it out like there’s piles of trash in the kitchen and old food, unsanitary conditions, very crowded, but they never deliberately said “Oh, I want to collect [INAUDIBLE].”
It’s just a [INAUDIBLE] of life they haven’t disposed of.
What was that question about again?
I sort of lost track.
Interviewer: Do people who hoard animals also hoard objects?
Interviewee: Yes, so you will see certainly when you come into some of these places and again there’s a range of things, so sometimes yes, sometimes no. Sometimes what you see is tons and tons of old pet food, bags of dog food, bags of cat food, empty cans of cat food, empty cans of dog food, you know litter bags, etc. So some of it is the [INAUDIBLE] of having animals and I don’t know that they’re hoarding that, they just don’t throw it away and that’s just how their lives are organized.
They’re hoarding the animals, but the other stuff is just sort of a byproduct of that.
But then we have also seen cases where along with the animals they do have other stuff.
Like the very first case I was telling you, they had a lot of religious iconography and a lot of Christmas decorations.
Interviewer: Interesting.
Interviewee: There was another case where we walked into the “shelter” and there was stall after stall after stall filled with chandeliers.
Interviewer: Interesting.
Interviewee: So, yeah you see both.
You walk into some places and you see stuff that’s just the [INAUDIBLE] of animals and you walk into other places and you see other stuff there, you know coo-coo clocks, you know whatever it might be and it’s like wow how do you meld these two things together?
And then there’s another case where we walked in and it was literally almost an empty house with various furniture and some cats.
Interviewer: So it doesn’t tend to be like you know when you talk about object hoarders, like just a jumble of indiscriminate objects?
It sounds like with animal hoarders a lot of times they have collections.
Interviewee: Well, it can be all of the above is all I’m saying.
I don’t know if you can characterize it as one or the other.
Some of it is accidental, what I call accidental hoarding, because they just haven’t thrown anything out.
They feed the cat, they empty the cat food can, they throw it over their shoulder.
Is that hoarding?
I mean it looks like hoarding, but is that the same thing as some of the other objects.
I don’t know the answer to that question.
It’s qualitatively different than walking in and thinking, “Wow, where did you get all of these chandeliers?” They had to do some work to get the chandeliers, that took some real effort to fill all sorts of chandeliers.Interviewer: And there does seem to be a parallel between seeking out animals to collect and seeking out chandeliers as opposed to with object hoarding where it’s just kind of like you said an accumulation of not throwing stuff out.
Interviewee: Even with object hoarding though I mean there are people that do the trash pickup every day.
The night before trash day, they’re out there with their car driving around the neighborhood looking for fun.
So even though it looks like a jumble, it’s a deliberate jumble.
As opposed to somebody saying, “Oh, I’m going to go out on Saturday night and just find coo-coo clocks.”
Maybe you’ll see that to some degree too, but that’s bordering more on collecting, I think, than hoarding because it’s more of a focused good and maybe you don’t have the filth and other kinds of things.
A lot of this goes back again to the point we talked about where you have this final common pathway, the endpoint, the behavior that you see and it’s a real open question of how much can we try to prescribe general help previous generalities to that endpoint.
You have to be real careful with that.
You just don’t know.
Interviewer: So, just because we’re seeing people with a lot of animals doesn’t mean those people are necessarily similar in the reasons they’ve acquired those animals or how they ended up becoming people who acquire a lot of animals.
Interviewee: Yeah, we don’t know.
I think maybe that’s the case, but I think it’s just way too early to tell because we need interviews, we need good case histories, and we’ve got snippets of stuff that hang together but that’s a far cry from claiming eureka.
Interviewer: That’s kind of the state of knowledge about object hoarding as well was kind of in that same place where there are a lot of really big unanswered questions.
I think a lot of the reason for those questions remaining unanswered is how difficult it is to find–
Interviewee: Bingo!
Interviewer: –people to talk to who will talk to you who self-identify.
So, here’s another question for you.
How do you feel that popular media conceptions of animal hoarding, like for example thinking of people as “crazy cat ladies,” how does that play into the phenomena of animal hoarding as it is actually kind of going on?
So do people self-identify as crazy cat ladies or do they say “I’m not a crazy cat lady because…”
Interviewee: Well, probably not the ones who truly are hoarders.
They have people with cat t-shirts and they have the cat clothing and all of the other stuff and they do it kind of tongue-in-cheek.
Even though they do care for a lot of cats and stuff, but those are people that are doing it precisely because they have insight, see what I mean?
Because you need the insight to play the joke at yourself.
The folks that we’re seeing they don’t have the insight to do that.
But I think for the ones that do where there is that border-line area I mean yeah the stereotypes certainly don’t help.
Nobody wants to be–they have enough insight to know that that’s a bad label and they’ll even sometimes have to be pushed back and say “I’m a hoarder.”
So they’ve heard of the term by now.
I had a woman who was well known in the community once come to one of my lectures [INAUDIBLE].Interviewer: Right, that she’s listening to you describe her and she’s not seeing it.
Interviewee: And she came up and she chatted with me and I didn’t know who she was until after the fact somebody came up to me, a law enforcement agent came up and said, “I don’t know if you know this or not, but that was so-and-so and you know this is who she is” and I was like “Wow, I never would’ve known it.”
Interviewer: What do these people’s kind of place in society like do they tend to have family, do they tend to be employed, do they tend to otherwise have normal lives?
Again, I know this is a generalization I’m asking for.
Interviewee: Well, the initial work we did and I think it has held up that they [INAUDIBLE].
They tend to be older, living alone, and just socio-economically marginalised.
But then you can flip that around and find an example and here’s a person who comes from a wealthy family and you see some that are married with kids.
But that’s the exception, not the rule.
The rule tends to be that these are people who are living relatively solitary kind of hard to [INAUDIBLE] lives.
Now the flip side is, if you Google it, you will see which is a very big case up in New Hampshire or Maine, one of the two I can’t remember which now, and there was a very wealthy woman who was hoarding great danes.
Interviewer: Wow.
Interviewee: And she’s been in litigation now with the [NAME] and the local community and she’s got the means to be a very pretentious [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer: That is so interesting.
Interviewee: There’s somebody who sort of, she doesn’t challenge the [INAUDIBLE] type, but she challenges a few of the others.
Interviewer: Right and then there’s that kind of correlation-causation problem where it’s like are they older and living alone and relatively impoverished because they are animal hoarders because those are they people who are able to become animal hoarders it makes them impoverished, it makes them live alone?
Interviewee: That’s a very good point, [NAME].
I think we don’t know that either.
We don’t have the longitudinal information.
It’s certainly not a path to wealth and happiness.
No one would make a recommendation [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer: Dang, I’ll have to cross that off my life plan: animal hoarding.
Well this is kind of my last question and then I’d like to talk to you about next steps because this is extremely fascinating and I’m so glad that we had this conversation.
So, what do you think about the relationship between this phenomena and other potential psychiatric or psychological problems, like we talked about trauma.
But do people tend to be depressed?
Do you see this as a behavior of a depressed person who can’t really control their life and is perhaps trying to cope with depression?
Interviewee: I wouldn’t be qualified to make, I’m certainly not qualified by myself to make that judgement and we really don’t have the data because nobody has done clinical diagnostics on these samples.Interviewer: Right, do you find that people are like frankly psychotic very often?
Like they are caught hearing voices?
Interviewee: It’s a very vocal delusion is all I can say.
When it does occur, often times these are individuals who are able to plan and execute very complex strategies to maintain their behavior.
So, you certainly wouldn’t put them into the psychotic category, I don’t think.
But when it comes to specific outcome of their behavior, the consequences, they seem to be able to just [INAUDIBLE] that out and draw a blank.
You have to be very high functioning.
You know, we’ve had people that are, there’s been mental health professionals, famous stories of psychologists and psychiatrists who have been hoarders.
How do you [INAUDIBLE] that one out?
Interviewer: It’s like a total blindspot about this one–
Interviewee: I mean there was [NAME] and [NAME] and their book [NAME] about a woman who was a psychiatrist in New York and she was a cat hoarder and she used to make her patients work with her cats as part of their therapy and she would encourage the patient to go home and collect their own population of cats.
Interviewer: Wow, that’s a whole new problem.
That’s a whole new level of problems of insight.
Well, I really appreciate your time.