Interviewer: Okay, well that’s the last list that I want you to make for me and I appreciate you doing that.
The idea behind that is to compare the lists that are generated by different kinds of clinicians and then also compare those lists to those generated by patients to similar prompts to see if there are major areas of disconnect.
So now I’d like to move into the more qualitative part of the interview and just to start that off if you wouldn’t mind just briefly giving me a little bit of an overview of your background related to hoarding disorder, how you encounter patients with this disorder.
Interviewee: I have been working with people with hoarding disorder and doing research on hoarding disorder for about twenty years, probably started in the late ‘90s actually.
I’ve been working with them and patients and doing research on hoarding pretty consistently since that time.
So in that twenty-year span I’ve seen a pretty large number of people with hoarding symptoms, with the actual hoarding disorder, and have delved into their phenomenology, their cognitive [INAUDIBLE], their response to various treatments, behavioral therapies, cognitive therapies, as well as medication treatments, their structural and functional brain abnormalities in our brain imaging studies, their personality traits with associated features, all that stuff.
Interviewer: Do you see patients clinically?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: And you hold a PhD in which field?
Interviewee: No, MD.
Interviewer: Oh, you’re an MD.
Interviewee: Yeah, I’m a psychiatrist.Interviewer: Okay, so the first thing I’d like to talk through with you is the diagnostic criteria for hoarding disorder.
So just to start the discussion I’d like you to give me an overview of what you think the most important differences, the most salient differences, between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting, and hoarding disorder are.
Interviewee: Yeah, okay, so and then there’s some literature and [INAUDIBLE] and colleagues on that and the differential.
So, differences between collecting behavior and hoarding disorder would be that collecting behavior is usually focused just on items being collected and so it’s narrow and specific.
It does not include saving or voiding discarding things because you think that they might be needed in the future or that you could give them to someone that they might be useful someday or that something bad would happen if you no longer had that item.
With collecting, it’s pretty clear that people have a clear-cut reason for saving those particular items and its because they are part of their collection, they like that particular set of items.
They’re not thinking that they’re saving stuff because they might need it for taxes someday or because that they might need it around the house or if its broken they might be able to fix it and then use it for a craft project or something like that.
So the reasons for saving are going to be different.
Number two, collections usually do not produce the same level of clutter.
People store their collections, they display their collections, they’re often proud of their collections, whereas a person with hoarding disorder often is quite ashamed and doesn’t want anybody to see what’s piled up in their home.
So, it frequently at least with the patients who have insight it’s the clutter and then the fact that they save so many things is actually causing distress whereas collections clearly don’t cause distress for that person.
Sometimes someone else living in the home may feel like the collection is taking up too much space so that may be a similarity, but rarely it gets to the point of hoarding.
I think those are probably the main differences.
The practice of it ends up being pretty easy to distinguish between the two.Interviewer: Okay, so I’m going to be doing a little bit of mirroring in this interview, so as I do that please correct me if I say something back to you that doesn’t sound right.
So it sounds like there’s two main categories of distinction between hoarding disorder and collecting behavior.
The first one being about the reasons and also it sounds perhaps like there are distinctions in terms of what exactly is saved.
So, a collection is not saved because of some future use for it and also it sounds like a collection is saved like it’s a discrete set or type of item whereas someone with hoarding disorder will not save something that is a– I guess that’s a question.
Could you have hoarding disorder and have a home full of bottle caps exclusively or bottle caps and coo-coo clocks and I don’t know what other things people collect, clown dolls I guess.
Can you hoard in that way or is that a distinguishing feature?
Interviewee: I mean I think sometimes there are.
I’ve encountered people with hoarding disorder who have, as part of stuff they’ve saved, some collectibles.
And maybe they’ve had excess acquisition of particular kinds of collectibles.
It’s just that it usually goes far, far beyond that.
So, it’s not that it can’t include collectibles it’s just that it almost always includes way more than that.
So you see lots of different objects and types of things saved and the types of things saved are usually most of the time the same sorts of things that everybody saves just to a much greater degree.
So, papers, magazines, storage supplies, old clothes that don’t fit anymore, and all kinds of other things, whereas again collections are more discreetly focused on particular areas of interest.
Interviewer: Okay, so it sounds like it’s not about the type of item or even that there is a type so much as that access of different types that they might have collectibles and might have a collection in the midst of many, many other things.
Interviewee: Yeah and the motivation.
Are you saving it because of anxiety and emotional distress because you feel like, “Oh I might need it someday, don’t touch it” or is it because of desire to have this particular type of collection that you can display and be proud of.
There’s a big difference of the emotional reaction and approach to and what happens with discarding and a big difference with the motivations.
Interviewer: It sounds like from what you said there’s also a big difference in how the collection is organized versus how someone with hoarding disorder has their items.
Do you feel like that’s a distinguishing factor?
Interviewee: Yeah, because usually disorganization tends to be a prominent part of the problem in most patients with hoarding disorder and you don’t necessarily see that with people who are just collecting something.Interviewer: It sounds like part of what you said also is that people with collections often seek to display their items whereas individuals with hoarding disorder more often perhaps seek to hide the extent of their behavior.
Do you feel like that is a product of the kind of excess and the lack of organization or do you feel like that is a separate factor?
So, are they ashamed of their items?
Interviewee: I think there’s a great deal of shame amongst people with hoarding who do have insight into their condition.
So, they’re hiding often because they’re embarrassed and ashamed and secondly because they’re afraid that they might get into trouble.
They don’t want city attorney’s office or fire department or police to see it, or landlord to see it, because they’re worried they might get evicted or get fined because those things in fact do happen.
Often times they do get evicted and they do get fined and they do get notices when they have to clear out stuff because there’s a health hazard or something.
So the impact of the clutter on their lives is completely different than what would happen with somebody collecting stamps or records or artwork.
Interviewer: Do you feel like that shame or that, maybe shame is too strong, but that kind of reluctance to show people their items is a part of insight.
That part of them realizes the behavior is problematic and that’s why they kind of hide it away or is it something else?
Interviewee: No, I think that’s a big part of it.
I think those who have insight into the problem usually are quite ashamed of it and most of the time they have never before until probably just recently ever thought of the problem as a psychiatric disorder.
Most of the time what they’ve been hearing for decades is that they’re lazy, they’re just not doing what they’re supposed to do, and it’s a moral failing, and people have been ragging on them “Why can’t you just clean up, you’re causing this problem,” without realizing that it in fact has its substrates and abnormal brain functioning and it’s just as much a psychiatric disorder as schizophrenia or OCD.
But prior to the DSM-5 it was never formally recognized as a disorder and still most people, if you interview most people out there in the community, they won’t necessarily know that it’s a psychiatric disorder unless they studied it in some way.
Even the TV programs don’t necessarily make that point.
This is one of the reasons that we stopped working with some of those shows, Hoarders and Buried Alive.
We tried to get give them the information so they could spread more public awareness of the fact that it’s a disorder and the need for treatment rather than just sort of having somebody come in and clearing out your stuff, and they didn’t want to do it.
The producers were not interested in that and so for that reason there still is a tremendous stigma and a tremendous lack of awareness of what this is really all about.Interviewer: Can you think of a specific case or cases that was challenging to diagnose because you felt like it was kind of on the border between pathological and normal behavior?
Interviewee: I would say the cases that I found hard to diagnose were not so much because of the difference between normal behavior, they were more because of a question about what was the primary problem.
Was the primary problem OCD, was the primary problem ADHD, or was the primary problem major depression?
Where it seemed like the clutter was really just because the person had ADHD and was disorganized.
They didn’t really endorse emotional difficulty in discarding, they didn’t get around to it, their time management was terrible, they weren’t home very much and so they just hadn’t done it.
But when they actually had time and when they perhaps had help cleaning up, there was no urge to save the stuff.
They knew that stuff needed to be gotten rid of or put away, but they just hadn’t done that yet.
So it didn’t really set the criteria because yes they had clutter and it was disorganized and perhaps there was too much stuff in their home, but it wasn’t because of real emotional difficulty discarding or the need to save things because you might need them someday and all that.
It was really just because of ADHD and disorganization and time management problems and all that stuff.
And then other cases where it appeared to start or at least move from kind of subclinical within the normal range kind of behavior into clearly more pathological behavior only when there was a major hit.
The patient developed a clear-cut major depression because somebody died, or they lost their job, or whatever reason they became depressed and something major changed in their lives, somebody moved out of the home and so now they were left alone.
And then after that they basically just stopped taking care of their environment and stopped cleaning up the home, stopped throwing things out, just not really bothering, they use something they just toss it in a pile.
It really had more to do with low motivation, low interest, an inability to take care of their environment.
Again, not really so much because of a clear-cut urge to save or perceived need to save those items.
So they had clutter in their homes, their homes looked like those of other people with hoarding disorder, and yet the motivations were different, the reasons were different.
So those were the cases.
I think in terms of differentiating from normal behavior, it’s on a continuum.
Just like most psychiatric symptoms or syndromes are on a continuum of normal behavior and so you use the same sort of criteria as with anything else which is, is it causing distress, is it causing impairment in some area of functioning, social functioning, work functioning, family conflict, health, etc. It’s very rare in my experience that I actually come upon somebody who is right in the middle where I said, “ Oh yeah, you got some of the symptoms of hoarding disorder, but you’re not really in the clinical category.”
That happens once in a while.
I would say maybe once a year I might run across one of those patients where their [INAUDIBLE] score is below forty, but it’s not really in the normal range either, it’s kind of in between a little bit.
Sometimes patients with OCD, I’ll find them with subclinical hoarding disorder or hoarding symptoms so they wouldn’t meet criteria for hoarding disorder, but on the other hand it’s not normal either, they’re somewhere in between.
When we recruit for people or patients get referred for treatment, they usually are much more severely affected.Interviewer: So it sounds like, first of all it sounds like, it’s pretty rare for you to find anybody who is on the borderline between normal saving behavior and hoarding and that really the distinction that you struggle to make when you do struggle to make a distinction is between hoarding and other potential problems.
I wonder if you could talk me through the process of making that distinction when it’s tough.
How do you decide if a diagnosis of hoarding or a diagnosis of OCD, for example, is a primary diagnosis?
Interviewee: So I think that probably the one thing that’s most crucial is reason for saving.
So like when we talked about motivation for saving before.
So with the patients, and this is a pretty small number from the studies and in my experience too, patients who actually have clutter in their home but it’s really secondary to OCD, it’s very easy to figure that out.
You ask them, “Why do you have these bags of garbage sitting in your living room?” and they say, “Because I’m afraid if I throw them out, they’re contaminated, and the garbage man that picks them up is going to catch a disease or something, so I don’t want to throw them out because of that” or they might say there might be some of their valuable thing inside there that they have to check through one more time before they throw them out.
But usually it’s pretty easy to figure out the reason for saving is because of some other typical obsessional concern that’s much more consistent with OCD as opposed to the typical things we see with hoarding disorder.
They might need it someday, what if I need it someday and I don’t have it, it’s valuable, I paid good money for it, I’m saving it up to give as a gift to someone, it’s memorabilia, it’s stuff from when my kids were in grade school and they drew me a picture and now my kid is thirty-years-old, but I can’t bear to part with that picture they drew in grade school.
So the reasons for saving are completely different as compared to OCD.
As I said with depression and ADHD, even though yes they’re also highly comorbid with hoarding disorder, but I do see occasional patients where it clearly seems like the clutter is almost entirely secondary to the ADHD or depression.
Prior to the onset of the depressive episode, let’s say they never really had problems with clutter.
Maybe they had mild subclinical difficulty discarding, but it was never really a problem until they had that physical disability or major depression or something like that.
And again, usually in those cases there isn’t that strong drive to save it’s just more difficulty taking care of things and having the mental and physical energy needed to clean up.
And with the ADHD, same thing, the reason for saving, usually the person doesn’t want to have that clutter, they just haven’t gotten around or are unable to organize their time to be able to take care of their environment and put everything away.Interviewer: Now I’d like to talk through the DSM-5 criteria a little bit more specifically.
Are there particular elements of these criteria that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that you have ever thought different clinicians may apply differently or have to do with clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean I’m biased because I wrote the first chapter of the criteria in my office a few years ago and then worked on the committee with the DSM-5 that worked on these criteria ten years ago or eight years ago.
So I think that generally they’re pretty good, I think the field tests have been pretty good in terms of their validity and their usability and the interrater reliability was actually pretty good for hoarding disorder as compared to mood disorders and anxiety disorders.
But I think a lot of people may get confused or misdiagnose people simply because they just don’t really get the phenomenology that much, they just haven’t had experience diagnosing this disorder or working with patients with the disorder because the patients may be really not very good historians.
Until you actually really sit down and go into it with them you may not be able to really elicit why is it that they’re saving stuff and do they have emotional difficulty discarding and because the interview sometimes can be difficult.
Sometimes the patients are really tangential and overinclusive and long-winded so they’re diverting it.
Sometimes they don’t really want to talk about that issue.
Sometimes they lack insight into what’s actually driving their own behavior.
So I think it probably can be difficult and it really does depend on how much training and clinical experience the person has or how much exposure they might have had to people with hoarding disorder.
People who are seeing a hoarding patient for the first time may not really know what to do or how to assess for it because it hasn’t been included in training programs up until just a couple of years ago.
So there’s plenty of, probably most of, mental health clinicians out there who still really don’t know how to assess hoarding disorder patients or to make the diagnosis or apply the diagnostic criteria well because they’ve just never had the training.Interviewer: So now I’m going to go through a little bit of the criteria more specifically.
So one of the criteria, as I’m sure you know, reads “persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value” and I wonder if for you that valuation or the inappropriateness of the valuation of objects is a part of the diagnosis.
So is it that they are unable to judge an object’s value?
Is that a part of this diagnostic criteria?
Interviewee: No, no I don’t think so.
The reason that that was put in is because the original criteria, the clinical criteria that [NAME] developed ten years prior to that was kind of used.
Most research studies said that there was persistent difficulty discarding of items that most people would consider worthless and many people with hoarding disorder have clutter that really consists of stuff that they bought that actually has a lot of financial value.
So expensive clothes, stuff that they bought online but in excess quantities.
So if you applied the old criteria that stuff wouldn’t be considered worthless or of low value, actually it was pretty valuable stuff.
So that’s why that little clause was put in, “regardless of actual value,” because sometimes people have homes filled with highly valuable, expensive stuff.
That was the reason for that.Interviewer: That makes total sense.
The next criteria reads, “The difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.”
I’m wondering if there’s a degree to which something like the amount of space a person has plays into this.
One could imagine two people with the same behavior, one of whom lives in a huge mansion is able to financially maintain eight storage units and the other who lives in a tiny trailer.
You could imagine a person continuing to save and never actually having their living areas substantially compromised because they have access to so much space whereas the second person their active living areas would be probably compromised after eight hours of this behavior.
So I’m wondering how you figure that into your diagnosis.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think you’re exactly right that the presence of clutter and the severity of clutter is influenced by a whole bunch of things that are completely external to the person’s psychopathology and for that reason [INAUDIBLE] sort of hoarding special interest groups at the foundation and our little research conferences.
I’ve really tried to, and I think other people have to, to really de-emphasize clutter as a diagnostic criteria because it’s a manifestation of the hoarding problem, but it is so dependent on other things.
So the amount of space someone has, how much money they have, if they’ve got a lot of money and a giant house, you’re right, that clutter isn’t really going to show up because they have plenty of storage space to put their things.
What I’ve seen is a lot of people that had to downsize and they moved from some giant house into a small apartment let’s say and all of the sudden now the small apartment is completely cluttered.
Or they have the external storage areas if they can afford them.
If they can’t afford them then they’ve got a clutter problem.
So yeah that’s one big element that I think is external to the person’s pathology, has to do with financial and space issue, and the other one is the impact of other people in the home.
So the child and adolescent people really brought this up is to say, if the kid has clear-cut hoarding symptoms with the other criteria met, but their parents are throwing their stuff away and preventing the clutter because mom goes in the room and cleans it up.
So they don’t have clutter so therefore they wouldn’t meet the criteria if you didn’t have that other clause at the end that says, “If there isn’t current clutter it’s because of a third-party.”
So that was a really important thing to put in their because otherwise you would never able to diagnose a child with hoarding disorder who had a parent who was cleaning up or somebody in college who had a roommate that forced them to sort stuff out or somebody who had a forced clean out by the house authorities or something like that.
But this issue of space has not really been dealt with well in the criteria.
There’s nothing in the criteria about kind of accounting for how much space the person actually has and that part of the criteria I think yeah is subjective and is kind of difficult because some people might have a pretty cluttered area but say, “Hey I can still use it” whereas another person would take a look at that and say, “No no no that’s not usable.”
So it is a subjective part of it and again it has to do with how much insight they have, whether the clinician has seen a photograph of the area, or if they make a judgement as to how small the area is, it’s fuzzy.
That’s unfortunately a pretty fuzzy part of the criteria, there’s a lot of subjectivity about how much use of the area is compromised or not compromised.Interviewer: And you also have intended use.
So the question is if I never cook and I use my kitchen for storage, is that intended use of the kitchen?
Is the stove always intended for cooking?
Or could it be intended for storage?
Interviewee: Right.
I think that’s what the group that was working on this criteria was talking about is that somebody with hoarding might say, “Oh it’s no problem that I have multiple boxes piled up in my bathtub and shower area, that’s what I’m using it for.”
But I think most observers would say that’s a problem because you can’t use the bathroom for what it was intended.
So it’s just kind of converting all these other areas that are intended for other things into just storage for clutter.
Interviewer: Is the presence of physical objects, this is going to sound like a weird question but I’ll tell you why I’m asking, is the presence of physical objects required.
So, for example, could one hoard digital media like digital photographs, digital, you know somebody who saved movies or books on hard drives obsessively.
Interviewee: Yes, I’ve had patients who actually filled up multiple hard drives you know with gigabytes and terabytes worth of stuff that they have downloaded.
So yeah there’s digital hoarding.
Now it doesn’t take up much space physically, but it takes up space on the drive.
I’ve had people hoarded emails, maybe had ten thousand emails sitting in their inbox because they were afraid they might need them, so they didn’t want to delete them.
Same process.
So the thinking process is the same, the emotions are the same, just the medium may be different.
But yeah I’ve seen many patients with some level of hoarding of electronical, pdf files, whatever.
Interviewer: So this is again maybe going to start off sounding like a weird question, but I hope you’ll end up seeing why I’m asking.
So for some healthy individuals obviously there’s a degree of variance in the amount of free space they like around them.
So some people are very comfortable only if there desk is clear whereas other people kind of like having a cluttered desk, it makes them feel productive and likewise some people prefer to have a space that’s more cluttered because they like to feel more enclosed by their items.
I’m wondering if you feel like that sense of being surrounded by items or being enclosed is part of what’s going on in hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, so that’s another kind of area of subjectivity because it has to do with how people react to or what their own emotional sense is about openness versus closedness and clutter.
I have encountered some patients who do feel more safe when they’re home with their objects.
I know that in [NAME] books they described actually a lot more of people like that than I have seen who really describe a feeling of needing to be surrounded by their stuff that I can see.
They’re finding they’re scared for them to not have that stuff, they don’t feel comfortable without that stuff.
I personally have not, while I have read about it, talked with [NAME] about it, I haven’t seen that many of my patients or clinical studies that describe that, but a few, a few did.Interviewer: Okay. So, in thinking about some of the things that we’ve been talking about up until now, so we mentioned that individuals with hoarding disorder sometimes are, for example, more socially isolated.
The literature describes people as often being more impoverished, often being older, and I’m wondering if you think that those are real characteristics of individuals with hoarding, like people with hoarding disorder are actually more likely to be elderly or if those are just the people that are picked up because of the things that we’re talking about.
So, I guess another way of asking this question is, is hoarding disorder more common in the elderly?
Is it progressive over the lifespan?
Or is it just that elderly people tend to be more socially isolated, tend to have smaller homes, and that’s why we see their hoarding symptoms?
Does that make sense as a question?
Interviewee: Yes, and that’s an important question that a bunch of people have tried to answer.
I think it’s actually a combination of all of those things.
[NAME], I don’t know if you’ve already spoken with her, but she’s one of my colleagues here in [NAME] and she has done a couple studies that have looked into this.
So while the onset and maybe three or four different epidemiological type studies and as well as patient interview studies that looked at age of onset and age of onset usually is around age twelve or thirteen of health symptoms.
I think it does seem progressive and I think one of [NAME] group of grad students’ recent study showed that when they looked at decade by decade, prevalence increased, and I think that was partly because severity worsens over time especially as clutter builds up and then it creates its own problems.
But probably also because social isolation increases, ability to clean and take care of an environment increase over time, and then other health and neurological hits occur that may exacerbate memory impairments, executive functioning problems, vascular, whatever else.
So I think there’s a bunch of reasons why, yes, I think the prevalence does appear to increase over time and the severity increases over time.
Perhaps people who have subclinical problems earlier now after all these things occur and they’re seventy now they’ve got fully clinical level of hoarding disorder.Interviewer: Okay, the last criteria I’d like to talk about specifically reads, “This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and distress associated with discarding them.”
I’m wondering if that distress is ever difficult to assess in the context of patients who have very low insight.
Like how does distress and insight...
Interviewee: Well actually what I find is the patients who have little insight are very distressed about discarding.
The flip side is the patients who actually have good insight and now they’ve already started discarding and they like it.
They just have trouble doing it, but they want to discard.
So you ask them, “Well do you have distress when you try to discard?” and they’re like “No, no I want to.
I know that I have way too much stuff and my distress is whenever I think about the clutter and all kinds of problems it’s causing me and the fact that my husband is threatening to leave me because of it.”
So the distress is now caused by the clutter.
So it really completely depends on what’s going on with that person and the level of insight.
The people that you see that don’t have any insight at all, they deny that there’s a problem.
They say, “No no no that’s all my stuff.
Don’t touch it.
I’m fine with it.
It’s not causing me any difficulty” and they certainly would be very distressed if you made them throw anything out because from their standpoint it’s all of the stuff they need, they want to keep it all.
Interviewer: So it’s interesting because clinicians will often say you know that it’s hoarding disorder if it’s getting in the way of their life or if the person is distressed by it.
But often what they mean is those people are not actually distressed by their behavior at all, they’re very distressed by discarding, but they’re not distressed by their own behavior.
Interviewee: Yup and that was a big debate and that’s where there were [INAUDIBLE] and I disagreed because they were kind of writing the criteria and I think even one of their own rating scales, hoarding rating scales, that kind of implies that everybody with hoarding disorder has poor insight and doesn’t want to discard.
And I said no, everybody who comes into our research studies and clinic they all have good insight and they want to discard they just have trouble doing it.
And this battle of going back and forth because some of them feel like they want to keep most of it or some of them realize I don’t need to keep much of anything but I just don’t know how to decide or I’m quite aware that I don’t need all of this stuff, but it’s completely overwhelming and so I put it off and procrastinate.
So I think it was because we were seeing sort of different segments of the population.
Interviewer: Can you explain what you mean?
Interviewee: Yeah, there was this idea that if you had insight into it or somehow you’re not bothered by the attempts to discard it, you don’t have hoarding disorder.
I said, “No that’s definitely not the case.”
That issue is what exactly causes distress, is it clutter itself or is it trying to get rid of the clutter?
That depends on insight.Interviewer: Well, that brings us really nicely into the next part of the interview where I’d like to ask you a little bit about your thoughts on insight.
So how do you define insight?
Interviewee: Well, I think insight is multi-dimensional.
You know, that’s why there’s that scale the BABS, Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale, that looks at a number of different aspects of insight because it’s not just one thing.
It’s insight into the specific nature of your thoughts and predictions and beliefs, maybe in this particular case about the items and do you actually need to keep them or not, and there’s insight into whether you have a disorder or not, there’s insight into whether you understand that your behavior would be considered strange or weird or pathological by other people even if you don’t think so.
There’s a little bit of different [INAUDIBLE].
Do you think it’s psychological problem or do you think it’s caused by something else?
So there’s different dimensions there.
I think you actually have to sit down and ask those questions and really do a more careful assessment of insight in people with hoarding disorder and it’s difficult.
I personally found it difficult.
I tried to use that scale, the BABS, in people with hoarding disorder and it was really hard because it wouldn’t identify any specific belief.
Everything was a might.
“Well, I might need it someday.”
“Well, do you believe you will need it someday?” “I don’t know, I might.”
Well yes, and so you couldn’t pin them down and say yes I believe it or no I don’t believe it in a way that you could say, “Is it really contaminated?
Are you really going to get sick if you don’t wash your hands?
Do you really believe that your face is distorted and ugly?” And we tried it a number of times and it was really difficult, so we kind of do it non-specifically and I’ve developed, we’ve developed, some other sorts of questions that get at the nature and insight of hoarding and put them in our hoarding severity scale.
[INAUDIBLE] because we don’t know how valid it will end up being.
But I ask all of those things.
I ask, “do you think you have a problem?
Do you think you have a psychological disorder or not?
Do you think that you really do need to keep all of this stuff?” I’ll ask them, “what percentage of all of the clutter in your home do you really think that you need?” and then even then you get a wishy-washy answer sometimes.
You’ll say well do I need or do I want?
I may want a lot of it, but I realize I truly only need some of them.
But we don’t always just keep what we need, sometimes we keep what we want and what if I want a lot.
So it can be very difficult to pin down exactly how much insight they have and how much they don’t have and a lot of people are in between.
But with some level of insight impairment and maybe a little overvalued ideation and what I’ve found is that that often changes with psycho-education and really discussing it and getting into a discussion about what’s driving it and having them start to do cognitive restructuring about what would happen if you didn’t have this whole pile of old newspapers from twenty-years ago.
Would it really actually be a problem or would it just be something anxiety provoking or understand you would feel angry because there’s a loss, but would it actually impact your life?
Once you start doing that you start actually affecting their insight and their cognitions because you’re challenging stuff, you’re asking particular questions that get at that.
So it’s the effect of the observer and the interviewer on what they’re actually measuring.Interviewer: You mentioned earlier that you have patients frequently that come into your clinics who are away that their behavior constitutes a problem and I wonder if you know or if you have talked to them about how they reach that state of high insight on their own.
If it was mostly externally driven, if it was mostly internally driven, how did people get there?
Interviewee: So almost everybody in our clinic who has hoarding disorder is there because they know they have hoarding disorder.
There’s only a couple because the people who don’t have insight won’t come.
They’ll either refuse or they’ll come in once because they were dragged there and then will never come again, because they don’t believe they have a problem.
So almost by definition everybody who continues in a treatment or a research study is somebody knows they’ve got a problem with this.
And I think the pathways to that realization are probably a lot of different ones.
Sometimes it’s because they watched a show or read a book about it.
Sometimes it’s because other people have been working on them for years saying I think you’ve got a problem you really need to get some help for this, why don’t you call a professional organizer, why don’t you get some help.
It could be because it was identified in the context of some other disorder.
They came in for depression and then somebody found out they had hoarding problems.
Most of the time it’s been on their own.
The individual or family being the kind of the most important people, much less often are referrals from other clinicians.
In fact, it’s been dismayed that we don’t get more referrals from clinicians and certainly not from those housing authorities and fire departments.
There’s a lot of those task forces that have civil authorities of whatever kind and at least the ones in [NAME] they never refer the patients.
We’ve gone and done talks with them explaining okay it’s a disorder you need to treat it and find these people and get them into treatment but they don’t refer the people.
So, unfortunately, we don’t get nearly enough referrals from those external sources.Interviewer: So, [NAME] published a paper about the concept of insight in which he broke it down into several different constructs.
I don’t know if you remember or are familiar with that paper.
The constructs for hoarding disorder were defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation, and indifference.
I wonder if you think that these are all parts of the same sort of insight, if these are different insights, how these work together in your patients.
I don’t know if you need me to read them again.
Defensiveness, anosognosia, or the lack of ability to perceive the illness, overvalued ideation where you believe that the value of items is wrong or that you overvalue them, or that you’re just indifferent.
When I was reading this paper, and this is just to move the discussion along, I was really struck by how these four constructs seem to be so different.
So, indifference, you could imagine a patient with major depressive disorder having low insight and that they’re indifferent.
Overvalued ideation and anosognosia almost sound more delusional, that they have beliefs that are simply not in accordance with the real world whereas defensiveness almost seems like a reaction or a behavior rather than necessarily insight itself.
So, I don’t know, I was very struck by this paper and this breakdown and I was just kind of wondering if you had read it, if you have thought about it.
Interviewee: No, I think I remember seeing it but not going through it, so I didn’t know about those four constructs or four factors that he was identifying.
I think all of them do play a role in different patients and seeing all of those being important factors for at least some patients.
Maybe some of them might be related to one another.
It would be interesting to see what he found and are they really completely independent of one another or do they relate?
And again all of them are subject to change.
So I think that’s an important thing about insight in all of these disorders is that it’s not static at all, it changes.
It changes with education, it changes with various realizations, it changes with experience, treatment, all of that stuff.
I think the overvalued ideation part is really probably closer to what we think of as kind of the key level of insight into the disorder.
Do you really believe that you need to keep the stuff because it really is super valuable and you’re getting use of all of it, or not?
Or do you realize that in fact some of it is really stuff that you could get rid of?
Anosognosia and indifference may be related because sometimes people have both.
Anosognosia can be sometimes because patients will say I’ve kind of developed blindness to it.
It’s like having a really bad smell in your home and you’ve become indifferent to the smell so you don’t even notice it but when anybody else might come in they might notice a terrible smell.
It’s the same sort of thing.
They’re so used to it, it becomes part of their living environment that they don’t realize how bad it is because it’s been the same for ten years and that’s what they’re used to now.
They’re desensitized to it.
I’ve definitely seen that in a lot of different patients.
The total indifference to it, yeah I think you’re right, I think that probably is more related to depression.
They realize it’s a problem but they just don’t really care and that also depends on the level of impairment and impact.
So if they’ve got a lot of clutter but it’s really not enough to actually make a major difference in their lives it’s not preventing them from getting repairs done.
The opinions and influence of other people in the home make a huge difference there because if someone has been yelling at you for the last five years to clean up the rid of the clutter because they can’t stand it, you’re usually not going to be indifferent to it.
You’re going to realize that it’s causing a problem.
My family members hate it.
But patients will often say that, “Well I didn’t think it was a problem, but my family did so I’m going to have to do something about it.”
So when people are isolated then there’s nobody else around to challenge that.
They become indifferent to it.
They got comfortable just living that way and it just wasn’t a big deal even though they’re quite aware there’s too much clutter.
Interviewer: I just have three more questions here so I apologize.
I know that we’re at an hour and I want to be sensitive to your time, are you okay continuing through these last couple questions?
Interviewee: Yes.Interviewer: So, we talked earlier in the interview and generated a list of explanations and reasons that individuals with hoarding disorder give for their saving behavior and kind of zeroed in on that emotional attachment to items as kind of a key component of what constitutes a disorder.
I’m wondering if you feel in dealing with patients and doing research on this that these justifications that people give are themselves the root of the disorder or are these kind of post hoc rationalizations for some kind of underlying biological need or that people save the item first and them come up with the “oh maybe I’ll use it someday” or if the “maybe I’ll use it someday” is really the key.
So is it more of a cognitive driven or more of a, I don’t know, I guess my question is breaking down so I’ll let you answer it.
Interviewee: I think different patients do have different motivations or different combinations.
Sometimes I’ll ask people, “How much of this stuff is stuff that you really hung on to because you thought you needed some day or might needed someday or might be useful or valuable and how much of it was for more for sentimental reason or memorabilia?” and I would say most people have some of each.
There’s a few who only have one or only have another, but most people have some of each.
Sometimes the stuff is all jumbled together so they can’t even really piece it apart.
I don’t think that those attachments and those perceptions or cognitions about that either create distress or anxiety about not sure that I might need it or not.
I think those are a root, I don’t think that they are post hoc things.
I think again because they are in fact all on a continuum with what we consider normal saving.
All of us save some stuff that’s memorabilia and almost all of us will save some things, or the things that we do save are things that we usually think we’re going to need.
I think what’s happening in hoarding disorder is that those perceptions and beliefs and then the emotions that come with those perceptions and belief are magnified and they’re spread over lots and lots and lots of items rather than just a few.
So if you ask people, “what receipts do you save?” and somebody might say, “I only save the receipts from the last one year because I might need them for taxes.
Once the year goes by and I’ve done my taxes I toss those out and we’ll save the next year.”
Whereas a person with hoarding disorder might say, “Well I don’t know.
Maybe I might need all of them.
So I’ve saved all of the receipts going back to twenty years because I’m not sure.
It’s too much anxiety to make that decision to throw away and so I just avoid it.”
So it’s the intensity of the emotion attached to those perceptions.
It’s that it becomes pathological so it applies to a whole bunch of different items where most other people would say, “No that’s ridiculous.
Of course you can’t save or there’s no way you logically are going to be able to use those broken electrical cords from a broken lamp.”
But the feeling is there and that part of it is the part that I think is similar to the process that you see in OCD and that’s the part of it that I think qualifies hoarding disorder as sort of an OCD-related disorder.
That is the aspect of the phenomenology that I think is closest to OCD whereas other parts aren’t necessarily.
But I think those feelings and emotions and the anxiety that goes along with the ability to decide or the fear that you might lose something that you might need someday, or that issue about waste that [NAME] described about having, lots of people feeling like I would like these items to be used and I don’t want to feel like things should go to waste, but he wouldn’t necessarily have such an intense feeling of that attached to so many different objects that were lots of things you couldn’t throw away.
So the difference is in degree, the intensity of the emotions and beliefs, are they kind of distorted and applied to lots of different things as opposed to just a few things for most of us.Interviewer: The last thing I’d like to ask you about is that there are kind of these, I don’t know if they’re folk-knowledge about hoarding disorder or intuitions that some people have, that hoarding disorder is related to consumption and overconsumption and perhaps a cultural move towards overconsumption and having storage units and having so much stuff.
I’m wondering if you feel like that is valid at all?
If there is anything to that idea?
Interviewee: I would say I don’t think so.
I think those issues certainly play a role in how it manifests.
So the fact that more and more people live in isolation in our country as compared to Europe or compared to the United States from fifty-years-ago when there were more like multi-individual families rather than a whole bunch of people in their fifties living alone because they’re divorced and there’s nobody around.
So social isolation has increased in our culture and our country and that plays a role.
But I think hoarding symptoms have been identified all across the world including people who are very poor or are not in consumer-based societies and that’s why I think the core features that drive the disorder are present regardless of ethnicity and culture, but the way it gets manifested, sure.
Like you mentioned, the size of peoples’ homes, we live in these giant homes now, so there’s lots of space and external storage units are a thing.
They’ve increased dramatically.
I read some news story about that industry and they’re making millions and millions of dollars because so many more people in the United States, all across the country, are wanting and using external storage units.
So they’re popping up all over the place.
So yeah that's a cultural thing that certainly effects how this manifests, but I think that those are the things on the outside.
Those are the things that influence the way that the disorder takes shape and the way that different influences are exacerbated or promoted, but I don’t think that’s the source at all.
Interviewer: And kind of the second thing that people say sometimes about hoarding disorder is that it’s related to early experiences of scarcity or somebody who’s experienced poverty and therefore reacts to it by having so much stuff and again is there anything to that idea in your experience.
Interviewee: No, there isn’t.
That actually has been something that [NAME] did do a paper on that and maybe a few other groups have taken a look at that too.
It does not appear to be correlated with early life deprivation or people used to talk about it’s only going to be in the Depression Era of people, the greatest generation that went through the Depression because they were povorous and that’s not true either.
If you look at different cohorts, birth cohorts, it’s about the same.
It can be seen in wealthy people and in poor people, people who grew up wealthy, people who grew up poor, so I think that one is getting refuted.Interviewer: And just kind of as a closing out question, for you what do you think is the biggest unanswered questions about this disorder?
Interviewee: Well, I think there’s several. I think number one, we don’t know the pathophysiology and unfortunately that’s true for most of our psychiatric disorders. It is so under researched, there’s only a handful. I mean you’re working with [NAME] and she’s one of the handful of people that are actually looking into this and trying to identify what are the brain abnormalities, is there a particular pattern. Which then leads into the second question which is, what are the best treatments for it? Because the current treatments we have are kind of plus-minus, they’re not all that great. Our group has done some of the medication studies and they’re kind of okay, but so far there hasn’t been a controlled trial.
My concern is that even the good results we got in our open trials they might not pan out in controlled studies.
Because everybody who treats this certainly sees a lot of people who are non-responders to the same medications and the behavioral therapy, while it’s good, the response rates and the degree of response is not all that great and I think we could do a lot better.
Some of the new things like adding in cognitive remediation that [NAME] has worked at looks like its good and it’s helped and it’s improved response rates.
I think we still have a long ways to go in learning about what treatments are going to work best, whether it’s medication, behavioral therapies, or other.
We don’t know nearly enough about what are the underlying substrates of it and what’s the pattern of pathophysiology.
I think those are the two big things.
Interviewer: Well, I really appreciate your time.