Interviewer: Okay, so now we are going to get into the more free-form interview script, and I'm just going to talk to you a little bit about, your, the ways that you distinguish hoarding disorder in your practice or research. I want to be respectful of your time throughout this interview so if we get close to running out of time at any point please just let me know and we will stop, okay?
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: So first I'd just like to have you briefly give me a background on your own work with hoarding disorder in terms of your educational background and also how you came to be interested in hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Okay. Well, I'm a psychologist by training, so I actually have a PhD., and I have been, for a number of years, been very active in the treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and related disorders. And something until relatively recently, hoarding was lumped in with Obsessive Compulsive disorder, and so in the context of treating people with Obsessive Compulsive Disorders one of the things I was in the position to see people who presented hoarding problems and it was considered to be Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, treating them that way. I have attended a number of seminars, workshops, things like that on hoarding. Again, most of them associated with training sponsored by or related to the treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. I met an actual OCD foundation, for example. The sponsors training, I’ve gone to training like that. I've gone to independently presented training workshops with some of the leading people in the field- [NAME], [NAME], people like that.
Interviewer: And you're mostly concerned with seeing patients clinically?
Interviewee: Excuse me?
Interviewer: You're mostly concerned with clinical care of patients with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s my, my work is clinical rather than research.
Interviewer: Okay, so now I'd like to talk a little bit about the way that you distinguish, like when you're seeing patients, the way that you distinguish whether or not somebody has hoarding disorder. So for you, what are the most important differences between what could be considered normal saving behavior, perhaps such as collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well, I think the most important discriminating factor is that the hoarding has gotten to the point where it’s interfering with their living situation, often a precluding safe entry or exit from their home, or causing them to not be able to use certain parts of their home, or their car for that matter. There’s times when people are engaging in behavior that causing them significant health risks, [INAUDIBLE] reporting falls, or sanitary risks because they’re hoarding things that are likely to become dangerous.
Interviewer: So for you, the distinction between normal saving behavior or even, you know, borderline cases like somebody who's an extreme collector is whether their home is still safe for that and able to be used, is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah, or they, you know, significant interference with their ability to use certain parts of their home, things like that.
Interviewer: Okay. Can you think of a specific case or cases that was challenging to diagnose because you felt that it was somewhere on the borderline between pathological and non-pathological behavior. And could you just describe like how you, how you make a decision like that or does that never come up for you?
Interviewee: I honestly think that the people where I’ve thought that they had hoarding disorder was really pretty clear.Interviewer: So very few borderline cases in your experience.
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t see much that, that really falls in the borderline range of this kind of thing, you know. People that I end up dealing with, it’s pretty clear that it’s a significant problem.
Interviewer: And what about cases that were on the border with other mental health problems, such as perhaps depression or OCD. So…
Interviewee: There’s considerable overlap. An awful lot of the people with hoarding also have significant depression. They may well have Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. They may well have other anxiety disorders that may come to attention first. I mean, they may come in because they are presenting with an anxiety problem, then you discover they’ve also got a hoarding problem.
Interviewer: So these, these disorders are common, and do you ever feel like it's difficult to determine if somebody is primarily suffering from hoarding disorder or if for example, they're severely depressed and are just unable to clean up their space, does that ever become an issue for you and your practice?
Interviewee: The thing, realistically, I think they’re at the point where I think they’ve got a real hoarding problem. Comorbid problems like depression are there, but I don't think it's the that hoarding problem is secondary to the depression. I think, actually, may well run the other direction.
Interviewer: Okay. So their primary problem might actually be depression.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: What about the distinction between Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and hoarding disorder? And as you mentioned, that's a fairly recent conceptual distinction and I wonder how you see that play out in your own practice or if you think it’s a valid distinction to be made.
Interviewee: Well, I think it’s a valid distinction and, again, in the past we used to consider hoarding just a variation of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. The thing is that, realistically, some people you see with hoarding don’t have other kinds of things that look like OCD at all. I mean we don’t have the clear obsessions about any topic other than their possessions. They don’t have distinctive compulsions other than collecting or sorting or hoarding things. Or then you also run into people that have very typical symptoms of OCD with a contamination of fears or karma obsessions or whatever else, and typical OCD-like compulsive behaviors other than hoarding, so you know they’re watchers or checkers, or, you know, they’re doing mental rituals or whatever.
Interviewer: So it seems like with that it is, in your mind, they are different, but they often can co-occur, although they can occur separately as well.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: How often would you say that they co-occur? Just again, this is not, we're not trying to get statistically significant, we're just asking people about their experiences with their patients that they find that it's very common in the patient populations that they see to have it overlap with OCD symptoms or if in their experience, it’s to be expected.
Interviewee: Yeah, I, I think maybe 20-25% of people with hoarding are also people with OCD, I don’t…You know, I…That’s a guess.
Interviewer: Yeah, sure. That’s all we’re looking for, just to, you know, get people’s kind of subjective experience with treating this disorder.Interviewer: Now we’re going to talk about the DSM-5 criteria, which I'm sure you, you're aware of how those were developed and probably were involved in, in those discussions. I just wanted to first start by asking if you have occasion to apply the DSM-5 criteria in your practice. I assume you do.
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE] I can’t quite hear.
Interviewer: Oh, I'm sorry. It got a little loud in here. I was just wondering if you use, I assume that you use the DSM five criteria in your practice with the intent of diagnosing an individual with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: Yeah. Do you find that there are particular elements of the criteria that you regard is particularly difficult to apply or that you worry sometimes that it could be applied differently by different clinicians? Perhaps things that are related to …
Interviewee: I think that sort of generally true with the DSM, but I think they’re, they’re reasonably clear. You know, let me reach into my desk here for my DSM.
Interviewer: Yeah, I have them. I can read them to you if you’d like.
Interviewee: I actually turn to the right page, I... If you want to read them that, that would probably make it easier.
Interviewer: Yeah, sure. So, where did, I was just going to go through a couple of key phrases and ask you about the way that you think about them. The first is, persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value. And I wonder, I guess about the question of actual value, and how, or if you ever worry about that in terms of patients who are saving particular kinds of things that maybe are not, you know, worthless garbage or that are saving things that have sentimental value that, you know, that might be subjective or difficult to determine. Do you ever struggle with the idea of a hoarder’s possessions, having actual value?
Interviewee: Well, you know, some people obviously are saving things that, that do have some financial value that could be sold or, you know, could be collected, kind of thing. And…
Interviewer: So if, if a hoarder has a collection or a hoard of items that are, you know, objectively valuable, but are just excessive. How does that fit into this criteria?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah but, but they’re, they’re still collecting or hoarding in a way that doesn’t, treats that actual value in a way that makes sense. They’re not selling them off or, you know, whatever, making profit off of it. Typically, we get piles of stuff that they think have more, much more value, than most people are going to think typically.
Interviewer: Yeah, that makes sense.
Interviewee: It looks like, at least a reasonable amount of time they’re not treating it the way I would expect people to rationally treat things in terms of their value.
Interviewer: So when you say rationally treat things in terms of their value, you mean, they might have a collection of objectively valuable items, but rather than, you know, selling them or displaying them, they just accumulate them.
Interviewee: They pile them in a corner somewhere. Yeah.Interviewer: Okay. What about this criteria, it says the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that can just enclutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use. So, I, we talked about that in our list. I wonder if you ever encounter situations where you feel that things like home size, so for example, somebody who lives in a very small space, like a trailer versus somebody who has the disposable income to live in a large house or have storage units. How does that play into determining whether their possessions can just en-clutter their active living areas.
Interviewee: Well, I think even people that have got lots of resources and lots of property still can end up with what looks like hoarding, even if it’s, you know, not impacting them as much as it might somebody that has limited resources. You know, I have people who have barns or auxiliary spaces and stuff that are filled with stuff, and, you know, maybe they are less impacted in terms of their living space, although it tends to creep in there as well.
Interviewer: Do you feel like it's easier to develop or to identify hoarding disorder in somebody who has a smaller space?
Interviewee: I don’t know if it is… I can think of some people that I’ve worked with who, you know, have plenty of resources and just have lots and lots of stuff in various places.
Interviewer: Okay. What about substantially compromises their intended use? The reason I'm asking you about this is different people intend to use different spaces in different ways. So for example, somebody might have a guest bathroom that they use for storage. While that's not the intended use of the guest bathroom, they don't intend to use as a bathroom. You know, people kind of can make determinations or likewise, some people might really not be able to work at a desk that's fluttered, whereas other people, you know, a cluttered desk really doesn't impact them. Do you find that those kinds of distinctions are at play in making a diagnosis of hoarding disorder or do you find that it's very clear cut and, intended use isn’t easy?
Interviewee: Most of time it is pretty clear that, that there are significant parts of their home, for example, that are compromised in the, in the, you know like, they can’t use the dining room table to eat at because it’s piled with stuff. And at least, you know, the bulk of the hoarding that I have seen, that’s, that’s the kind of situation that they’re in, it’s pretty clear.
Interviewer: Okay. And, can I ask you, in your practice, how you make determinations about their living space? Did they just describe their living space to you, or do you have other ways of, of examining that question?
Interviewee: Well, my other really useful thing there is to, a, send a pictures and rating scale…
Interviewer: Oh, okay yeah. You use their rating scale.
Interviewee: …that, in years, you know, it, it was developed by [NAME] and company. That, I can show to people, sometimes people bring in pictures.Interviewer: Okay. So either using the rating scale or people bringing pictures of their things. The final criteria I'd like to talk to you about, before we move on, is it says the difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them. So this is also something that came up that people sometimes are very sentimentally attached to items or they attribute emotion to that, to items. And I wonder how you make the determination of how much distress is normal or abnormal when it comes to discarding.
Interviewee: Well, yeah if, if you can describe the, the sentimental attachment to an object that, again, fits with my conceptualization of how people usually think about objects. So, you know, I got this at a particular event and it was very important to me, and therefore I want to keep it. You know, in the event and the object and what it represents makes it coherent description, I think that that’s a relatively normal experience. But if somebody says to me, well I had a picture of a cuckoo clock and I’ve lost it and I never will get over having the picture of the cuckoo clock and losing it is actually painful. Yeah, it’s very hard for me to understand how that represents a normal attachment to an item.
Interviewer: Right. So it sounds like there's barely borderline cases for you that it's usually pretty clear cut that the attachment is extreme.
Interviewee: Pretty much, yeah.
Interviewer: Okay. Now we're going to move on to talking about insight because hoarders are often described as having low insight. So the first thing I'd like to ask you is how you as a clinician understand the concept of insight.
Interviewee: Well, I think that I mean by the term insight is understanding that this particular way of dealing with things is really outside the range of what we expect in normal experience and is, in some ways, interfering with their living their lives. In a reasonable way, it’s causing them trouble, causing them stress, taking extraordinary amounts of time or resources. Things like that.
Interviewer: Okay. So when patients come to you, do you find that the patients that you see often have high levels of insight already? Or have you seen patients that are still kind of low insight?
Interviewee: It’s quite variable and it kind of depends on how they get here, but people who come seeking help for hoarding voluntarily usually have a reasonable amount of insight that this is a problem. People that are pushed into coming by family members and things like that often have extremely little insight and, you know, think it’s everybody else’s problem and that they’re just fine.
Interviewer: And how do you in your practice help patients to try to gain insight? What’s your process for helping a patient with low insight?
Interviewee: Well I, you know, I want to talk to them about what exact things are happening. What restrictions are occurring because of their need to attend to these items. You know, can they not let people into their home because of it, can they not use things that are important to them, is it causing problems in terms of relationships because there is a big struggle with family members about the way they’re keeping things. Things like that.
Interviewer: So you help them to see the way that it has impacted their life. That’s what you concentrate on.
Interviewee: Right.Interviewer: And, in your experience, the patients that come to you with high levels of insight already, how have they, or do you have any sense of how they have gained that insight on their own or before they've come to you?
Interviewee: I’m sorry, I lost a little bit of what you said [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer: So when patients come to you and already are self-identifying as people who have a problem with hoarding disorder, do you have any sense of how they gained that insight or what the process was that led them to let them to come and seek treatment?
Interviewee: That’s a tough one. I’m not sure that I can pin down a particular sense or how they got there. Yeah, so sometimes it’s, again, somebody has spoken to them about something or they’ve gotten in a situation where they’re facing constant criticism. [INAUDIBLE] that this is not working well. Others, you know, sometimes see it because of, it can be a case of where they’re dealing with other family members who are hoarders, actually kind of helps them understand that they had a problem too. Or, I had a woman who I worked with for a while, who got stuck trying to deal with her father’s estate, essentially, had tremendous piles of things and she was a hoarder herself, but her siblings were not. And, so there was this, you know, first of all, the experience of trying to deal with her father’s stuff and dealing with her siblings who were dispositioned to things, I think led to her understanding that it was really a problem.
Interviewer: Okay. So it sounds like sometimes they can have conflicts with family members or other times they can have experienced it with a family member.Interviewer: So I'm going to read you, so there's a paper that I think [NAME] has published that deals with the concept of insight and breaks it down into different constructs. And I’d just like to, you to think through these constructs in your clinical experience with your patients. Just to see if you feel like each of these is pertinent for hoarding disorder. If some are more important than others. And again, the purpose of this discussion of insight is to try to better understand this major problem with how to get people into treatment. So the constructs are defensiveness, so I'm being defensive of, of one's possessions, not wanting to give them up. Anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive an illness or that something is wrong, or causing you distress and reducing quality of life, overvalued ideation, which is like when patients really believed that they, that the potential value of the item is above what it is, can range from like mild to more of a delusional kind of problem. And then indifference, which is where patients simply don't care that they have a problem. In your experience with people with hoarding disorder, do they, how do these different constructs breakdown in your patients?
Interviewee: Well, I think the anosognosia kind of thing is certainly a presentation that is not unusual, again, more often folks that are brought to treatment [INAUDIBLE] seek it themselves. I think overvalued ideation is certainly present in a lot of folks in terms of their valuing of items or their seeing the importance of keeping things, or having everything they need, or whatever, for all possible circumstances. Let’s see, possessiveness, I have a problem with that conceptually, I think, what we typically label as possessiveness is almost a psychodynamic concept or behaviorist in my orientation.
Interviewer: Can you explain what you mean.
Interviewee: Excuse me?
Interviewer: Can you explain, can you just expand on that a little bit more. I don’t, I’m not…
Interviewee: Yeah, well, when we talk about people being defensive, I think it’s really conceptualized as, ordinarily at least, and, conceptualized as somehow you’re approaching something that is unconscious sleep, triggering their distress or whatever, and that’s a conceptualization model that I don’t think makes much sense.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Okay. I think people act in what we call a defensive way when they see themselves as, or when they experience anxiety because of whatever it is that you’re doing or touching or saying.
Interviewer: So defensiveness is more of a behavior or reaction rather than a construct.
Interviewee: Yeah.Interviewee: Okay, that makes sense. Yeah, that totally makes sense. Okay, so now I'd like to think through, if you recall the list that we generated, of reasons that patients give for their hoarding behaviors. So, you know, we had given things like believing the object will be useful later, attaching too much emotional significance to objects. I’m wondering, if in your mind, these explanations that patients give are kind of their root of hoarding disorder, or do you think that these are post hoc justifications that the patients have kind of come up with to rationalize what's essentially a need to save things? So do they save things because of these reasons or are these reasons generated because they save things, if that makes sense?
Interviewee: I actually think that almost all mental disorders, I don’t know if you’re familiar with acceptance therapy but this idea that, personally, all mental disorders involve, in part, experiential avoidance. Okay, and that means that, you know, people are engaging in what amounts to maladaptive behaviors in effort to not feel, usually anxiety or other uncomfortable emotions but sometimes even positive emotions. And I think that’s really a good way of understand hoarding as well as most other disorders so that, and the other thing I think is that people make up explanations for why they do things when you ask them, they may not have them, even if they have, they may not really understand why they’re doing things that they’re doing, really because in their experience, or their understanding of the world, it seems they’re avoiding or escaping uncomfortable feelings. If giving things away or disposing of things is uncomfortable, they’re going to avoid doing it. If you ask them way they don’t do it, they come up with a reason.
Interviewer: So for you it seems that it’s more of a post hoc justification, but that there’s still avoidance based reasons for why they do things.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Anything can be avoidance. It’s not really thought through until you ask them. You know, then they come up with a reason.
Interviewer: Okay. Another question and we're coming to the close of our interview. I appreciate you sticking with me. So one of the big questions and I have about hoarding disorder is about the life course of hoarders because so many people tend to be identified relatively late in life. And I wonder if you have any sense for your patients how long their behavior has typically been going on before you see them?
Interviewee: Yeah, for most people it probably starts much earlier in life than we ever know about it. And it may be minimized because they’re not in control of most of their life circumstances in the the younger years. And it may start to get dramatically worse in later stages of life, again, because their reduced influences by other people that would curtail it. So that if people, you know, become…Lose their partner, for example, in later life, there’s no counteractive force with the other person saying “what a minute, you’ve got to get rid of some of this stuff.” Or, it seems like that or they’re alone anyway. So, no real counteractive interactions.
Interviewer: Right. So it sounds like some little bit about this disorder is social and has to do with isolation, which is perhaps…
Interviewee: I think that increases it, yeah.
Interviewer: I mean I guess there’s also a cause and effect problem—
Interviewee: Right.Interviewer: —in terms of whether people grow more isolated because of their behavior or their, you know, more isolated status enhances their behavior.
Interviewee: Right, well I think it probably goes both directions.
Interviewer: And so this is a very big picture question as well. Do you ever feel that there are cultural forces associated with value that associate value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions that may play a role in the development of hoarding disorder or that…
Interviewee: Why, I think if it’s a factor, it’s not a dominant factor. I mean, a lot of the things that I see people keeping, and hoarding, and the way they’re living, the serial status is not such a big deal as much as it is emotional comfort. Well, you know…
Interviewer: So…
Interviewee: Again, it’s related to these ideas that if I don’t have something, then I won’t feel bad.
Interviewer: What about, so some people who study hoarding disorder place most of the emphasis on anxiety or negative emotions associated with throwing things away, whereas others really see it as important, the positive emotions associated with acquiring. In your experience, how does that balance out in the patients that you see?
Interviewee: Well I think it varies across patients, but I think that both elements are likely to be present in practically ever hoarder. That is to say, they’re getting some pleasure or satisfaction out of acquiring things or having a complete set of things, or something like that. Or, you know, getting a particularly treasured item, and I think that there’s, in almost all hoarders, or at least all hoarders I’ve ever worked with, a real avoidance and stress associated with letting go of those things.
Interviewer: So for each patient there’s a little bit of both, for some there’s more of a positive acquiring, and for some there is more…
Interviewee: Yeah, I think there is a variable mix, but I think most are present in practically everybody with hoarding.
Interviewer: What about the relationship of memory to hoarding disorder? So, one of the things that you mentioned was people who are afraid of discarding because they're afraid of forgetting things. How do you feel that figures into…
Interviewee: I think it’s an important part of what maintains hoarding, but I think it’s because of misunderstanding of how memory works. I mean, it, I think, all of hoarders have this innocent [INAUDIBLE] idea that memory is contained in the object. That, if I lose, I will forget it, rather than the memory is actually in my brain. And I can remember an object even if I don’t have it. And I think that that arises out of the fact that if you look at something then you remember things about it. So then, you make the mistake of thinking this memory is somehow maintained in the object.
Interviewer: Interesting. So it seems to be the kind of like a, almost a cognitive mistaking the object with the memory.
Interviewee: Right.Interviewer: Okay. Well, I really appreciate your time. We're just about at the end of the interview, I just want to close by asking you if you feel like there's anything important that we didn't touch on. And just to follow that by saying what you think the most important things that we still don't know about hoarding disorder that you would like to know. I know that that's a very big question because there were a lot of fun moments. But if you were to answer one question, what question…
Interviewee: Okay. I, off the top, I can think of something that we haven’t talked about that’s really important. I do think what we don’t know enough about is how to get people engaged in treatment. I think there’s good reason to think there are an awful lot of hoarders out there that nobody ever treats. And the percentage of them are a substantial percentage of are [INAUDIBLE] are unlikely to seek treatment or, I don’t know, even think that they themselves have much of a problem. And I don’t think we know anywhere near enough about how to help them.
Interviewer: Yup, yup. Okay. Well that's hopefully what we're going to try to get at with this project and we were really, as you know, I’m going to stop the recording. Thank you so much for your time again.