Interviewer: Okay great. So those are all the listing prompts that we have for you and I appreciate you going through that exercise, and again, as I explained the idea behind that is to generate these lists and to kind of be able to compare both within clinician groups, different kinds of clinicians, and to compare clinicians to patients to be able to say which ideas are most salient for different groups. So now we’re just going to get into a kind of semi-structure qualitative interview, and to start that off I’d just like you to give me a really brief idea of your professional background related to hoarding disorder, how you are involved with either research or treating patients with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yes, so I went to undergrad at [NAME] University where I majored in psychology and worked with several of the labs on campus doing research as an undergrad and became involved in a lab that studied anxiety and related disorders kind of more broadly, and so I ended up staying post my bachelor’s degree and getting a research assistant position there and a grant where I worked on anxiety treatment trials. During that time, I became interested in anxiety as well as some of the related conditions like OCD and hoarding, and so I ended up applying to graduate school and staying at [NAME] and working there with [NAME] who had a former student’s lab here at [NAME] clinic who also did hoarding research so I just started working with her and it became kind of an interest of mine. And so it was just something that clinically was fascinating to me, obviously from a research perspective was fascinating to me, and so I started developing my master’s thesis around this idea of hoarding and how maybe things in the environment like clutter might exacerbate hoarding symptoms. And then sent those to my [INAUDIUBLE] graduate school kind of studying both hoarding and OCD, publishing a fair amount in this area and then since then am living in New Orleans working here at [NAME] as a researcher and don’t focus as much anymore on hoarding. This is not the primary premises of what we do at the [NAME] we see a lot more of PTSD and maybe other anxiety patients and a lot of primary depression and substance abuse, but it’s still something I kind of dabbled in. Also, I’ve treated a handful of patients working in graduate school in [NAME] clinic. We have an anxiety and behavioral health clinic, which was an outpatient clinic that services individuals on the university’s [INAUDIBLE] community and so I carried the case load of about two hoarders at the time throughout my time in graduate school working there as well so all the cases of clinical experience were kind of understanding and treating the symptoms.
Interviewer: And in your current position do you see hoarding patients clinically? I know you said that it’s not your primary focus.
Interviewee: No, I do not. I don’t see patients at all now unless it’s a part of a treatment trial. I’ve decided to primarily fund myself through grants and I do have some work and some things I’m collecting right now with regards to OCD but nothing right now with regard to hoarding.Interviewer: Okay, so now we’re going to kind of move into the section of the interview that talks about how to know hoarding behavior and what distinguishes hoarding as a disorder. So one of the things we’re interested in is the line between hoarding as a disorder and normal saving behavior or saving behavior that’s on the normal spectrum. So in your mind, what are the most important differences between normal saving behaviors such as perhaps collecting or even extreme collecting and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: If I had to name one thing I would say it’s the impairment that it causes. I obviously think that that’s the nearest—there’s a very thin line between what we consider something that meets for this clinical and diagnostic criteria that we have and what doesn’t, and to me the kind of thing that I’m constantly looking for when I’m seeing symptoms of someone on the spectrum, which I think that most things are, is the impairment and is it really interfering with aspects of daily kind of functioning like social relationships, employment, occupational relationships, and tasks, and just kind of an overall a [INAUDIBLE] and living.
Interviewer: And how do you distinguish impairment from just kind of like impact? What sorts of things do you look for when you look for something that is really impairing? I guess that’s maybe a tricky question but what I’m trying to get at is people change their lives and things have an impact on their lives, but what for you is really the line that pushes something like that into something that is an impairment?
Interviewee: That’s a good question. I mean, I like for it to be something that the patient thinks is impairing, not something that necessarily a clinician or I am telling them that is impairing, although with hoarding that can be sometimes trickier given that sometimes patients aren’t coming necessarily on their own accord. So, I guess the things that I’m looking for are, “is it causing substantial conflict?”, not that it’s just impacting the relationship but that it’s causing substantial conflict or something like that in their relationship maybe with someone that is living in the home. Maybe their safety is at risk or the safety of others is at risk. Maybe financially they’re not able anymore to afford having multiple storage units or places to put their things. Maybe they don’t live in their home anymore and that’s becoming sort of a difficulty having to afford living in a hotel as well as having a home that you can’t use for its intended purposes. But I don’t have a great answer for that because that is tough.Interviewer: Can you think of a specific case or an example of a patient where it was challenging to diagnose them, because it was on the border between pathological and non-pathological behavior?
Interviewee: Yes, actually I can. I have a patient that I saw for a fair amount of time who definitely met for hoarding disorder in the sense that she had difficulty discarding or parting with some possessions. She definitely had this perceived need to save things and had substantial acquiring habits where she was shocked and she wasn’t [INAUDIBLE] and so it was interesting to me to treat her because for her everything truly had some sort of value—it could be used in some sort of way, and she kind of looked at things in a different light than I probably do. I would say that out of all the people that I’ve worked with, her home was probably, for the most part I mean, could be used completely like she could sit on her couch, they could use their kitchen, her and her husband, they could sleep on their bed. They did have one or two rooms that were pretty sealed in terms of clutter with things she was like collecting her art stuff and things she would buy to potentially use in the future for art-related projects that she admitted that she would never likely start. But for her the impairment was coming from the fact that it was causing significant problems with her and her husband, because one: she was spending money that they often times didn’t have, and two: he did not like the fact that some of the rooms were already cluttered to the point of non-use. But she was definitely a little bit more I guess on the fence in terms of being as severe as other people I have seen but also still technically to some degree really meeting for the disorder based on self-report.
Interviewer: So, for you the way that you made that distinction was that you took the cue from her in terms of her self-report of impairment or her self-report of distress.
Interviewee: Yes, yeah for some part some impairment was very much self-reported in the sense that I did not know personally about her finances and never interacted with her or her husband in the room in a therapy session. But those are things that she was reporting to me and being kind of the catalyst, you know the call for change or want to change with regard to the behavior.
Interviewer: And so, in terms of making the clinical distinction—even though it was kind of border line because she was self-reporting impairment—you went with her take on the situation.
Interviewee: Yes, I mean I knew, given what she was presenting with, that that was the kind of reel on what she would fit diagnostically and I often times think about how would I treat this patient without necessarily making a clinical decision about a disorder—particularly when it can be a little bit, you know, maybe differentially, diagnostically could be a differential diagnostic question. I’ll think about what are the presenting symptoms, what are maybe the underlying factors and how would I treat them; so, for her it seemed like that would be the treatment that I would use.Interviewer: If you could think through for me—so we’re going to move onto the next set of questions. The next set of questions are kind of about the DSM-5 criteria and we’re going to go into a little bit more detail about the criteria themselves. It sounds like you’ve applied these criteria to patients or you have applied them with the intent of diagnosis. Are there particular elements of the criteria themselves that you think are particularly difficult to apply or that perhaps different clinicians might apply differently? Maybe things to do with the language? Or things that are related to clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Let me think about that for a second, that’s a good question. Obviously, I guess addressing impairment, for one, can be hard because the patients often times don’t acknowledge the impairment and don’t see it necessarily—which is really those that derive kind of joy or pleasure from their behaviors of acquiring and that sort of thing, and obviously find it negative to discard or find that to be distressing. So, I think the insight a little bit, like you kind of mentioned earlier, could be one issue with hoarding that is hard. I was surprised when the DSM came out that there was excessive acquisition as a specifier. This is my personal anecdotal evidence of treating patients and interviewing a lot of hoarders, but I have never personally come across anyone who did not have this acquiring problem or piece, and I’ve oftentimes wondered, diagnostically and from a research perspective, whether or not people who don’t have this acquiring piece if it’s really hoarding what we’re seeing or more like some sort of anhedonia or just general, kind of like [INAUDIBLE] as to why they’re not cleaning up. Because for most individuals with hoarding disorder, there is always an acquisition piece present, it’s not something that would just be a specifier, there is this kind of pleasure or joy that’s derived from buying things or collecting things or obtaining free things, and it would be hard for me to imagine an instance in which hoarding occurs without some sort of acquisition.Interviewer: Yeah, I can understand that. So, just to repeat back and make sure that I’ve got what you’re saying, it seems like there needs to be a piece that involves taking pleasure in items and in acquiring them and in having them, and not simply an inability to discard or clean up, that distinguishes the behaviors associated with hoarding disorder from the behaviors associated with, say somebody who’s badly depressed and who simply can’t get up and clean their house. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s sort of what I’m saying I mean I’ve definitely seen patients who have been depressed for a while, we actually just had a case recently where a guy came in, a veteran who denied hoarding—I’m going to talk freely about this I hope that that’s okay—it was a very fascinating case that they had asked me to consult on where he was essentially, I mean it was very clear that he was depressed and depression is seen as common [INAUDIBLE] diagnosis along with hoarding it’s pretty well established in the last couple of years despite what people think about OC it’s actually depression that’s more common, and for him he was very much clinically depressed and had been since deployment to the extent that he wasn’t even getting out of bed to use the bathroom he was actually just peeing in water bottles and throwing them on the floor so there became this question that given the nature of his home and how much filth and trash and [INAUDIBLE] there was, whether or not that was hoarding or whether or not it was something else, and I mean, technically he wasn’t discarding or parting with possessions and he denied having difficulties but yet he wasn’t doing it so there was this weird kind of like, “what is it?” and that’s an instance in which I’m feeling that the thing that separates hoarding from other disorders is the need to acquire and what that brings for you and to me he really wasn’t similar to the OC and other related disorders like that impulsivity. So, without that piece there to me it’s not hoarding, although according to the DSM, excessive acquisition is actually a specifier but it’s not a requirement and so that’s been one thing that’s been somewhat hard for me to kind of wrap my head around.
Interviewer: That makes total sense. Okay and now I’m going to read you a couple of the phrases from the criteria and I’d just like you to kind of talk through to me your thought process as you apply it to individual patients and I have some questions about them. So, one of the things that we’re interested in hearing about is this phrase, “persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value.” What we’re interested in is kind of how you determine actual value, like what makes a value judgement in a person with hoarding disorder inappropriate? Is it like a monetary? How do you determine if an emotional valuation is an inappropriate emotional valuation? How do you determine if an aesthetic valuation is an inappropriate aesthetic valuation?Interviewee: That’s a very good question. So, the question is, just to make sure I’m understanding, how do I determine?
Interviewer: Yeah, the criteria itself reads, “regardless of actual value” and so I guess I’m wondering when you talk to a patient with hoarding disorder, what is your criteria for determining their ability to value items? I mean, inappropriate valuation is…how do you see that in a patient? How do you determine if a patient is appropriately valuing items?
Interviewee: I guess sometimes it’s in the number of things that they evaluate as valuable. I think it’s clear that we all value certain things… an example would be, I don’t have a child but I imagine I my mother has saved some of my childhood things, but didn’t save every single thing. You know, it’s part of my childhood so it’s understanding that like there are certain things that you should save because they remind you of this time or this place but everything may not be necessarily needed or saved.
Interviewer: Right, so this criterion which says, “difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of actual value” maybe more means that some things have more value than others? That’s what you’re looking for as a normal ability to value items? And not so much that they correctly value valuable items and throw away trash, you know what I mean?
Interviewee: Yeah that somethings have more—yeah that’s a good way to put it. Yes.
Interviewer: Okay, so the next one that I’d like to talk through with you is, “the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromise? And how do you determine, for example, if a person lives in a trailer vs if the person has the ability to have a very big house with two or three rooms for storage, how does that play into your ability to make a diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s a really good question, one that I’ve thought about a lot. So, in terms of the number of “how this or that kind of thing”, I mean, to me, if someone can use—I guess for the intended use, my main problem there is “can you perform activity that have to do with living?” I think with geriatric patients, are you able to shower? Brush your teeth? Can you use your toilet? Are you able to have a bed that you can sleep in or a place that you can sleep? Can you heat up or fix yourself a meal in your home? So, I would say basic kinds of everyday needs like shelter, food, hygiene, clothing, that kind of stuff are the things that I’m looking for in terms of “intended use”. So, it’s less important to me if your house is cluttered and dusty if you can do those things. So, you can have a conflict with a spouse, for instance, that your house is extremely cluttered and yucky but if you can kind of use your house for all intended purposes that you would need it for, in terms of like being able to, like I said, sleep, eat, and shower and take care of those kinds of things, to me that certain criteria is not met unless you cannot do those thingsInterviewer: What about things that are maybe on the line like using a guest room for a guest as opposed to using a guest room for storage? Or even going a step forward and using the surface of a desk to work on as opposed to using the surface of a desk for storage?
Interviewee: Yeah, I would say that’s when I would consider it kind of like on the line and maybe more subclinical. I would, probably in that instance, take into account other things like their difficulty discarding possessions and how hard that is, and whether or not this behavior is actually just kind of, you know, let’s say [INAUDIBLE] from being at the clinical kind of level, if that makes sense?I would also kind of take in to maybe their impairment and how much it bothers them into my conceptualization and diagnosis. And once again I think that I always kind of look back and think, “they’re here for treatment, they want treatment, this is the way I’m going to treat it.” So, labeling it right now as hoarding disorder, whether or not they’re to some degree subclinical versus fully clinical won’t change the way in which I approach it diagnostically, it just may be easier to work with in this moment.
Interviewer: What about home size? How does that figure into it?
Interviewee: Home size? That’s a really great question and when I was in grad school, mu supervisor and I talked about that a lot. To be honest with you, I don’t think it’s hoarding if you can afford to buy a home. Because you may have this difficulty discarding possessions, you may have this excessive acquisition, but in that case, you likely don’t have the active clutter of the living spaces, which is to me what causes—It’s kind of like the combination the impairment that comes from that symptom.
Interviewer: so if you can keep acquiring stuff and have it not impair your life, you don’t have a disorder?
Interviewee: That would be my thought, yeah. I don’t think I’ve ever thought about it as in depth as we are but yeah, I would ever say that—I mean I think about other disorders and I most of the time try to think about things in terms of when to make it a disorder is when it’s impairing. You know, think about even anxiety. If you have a significant amount of anxiety but it’s not impairing you in any way, even though I may worry about things excessively, if it doesn’t interfere with my sleep or if it doesn’t impair my relationships, is it really a disorder? But it’s a very fascinating and interesting question.Interviewer: Yeah, that is very interesting. So, I guess the last piece of criteria that we’d like to talk through with you is something that you mentioned already and that’s about distress and how you assess this. So, the criterion reads, “difficulty discarding due to a perceived need to save items and to distress associated with discarding them.” And so, how do you determine how much distress is normal or abnormal? And is it difficult to sometimes determine the level of distress when people have very low insight and deny having a problem? So perhaps say, “Oh, yeah, I could throw away this item anytime I wanted and it wouldn’t upset me and it would be fine, but I just choose not to.” How do you assess distress in that context?
Interviewee: That is hard, typically what I do when I was treating patients is we would do a behavioral experiment in the first session where I would actually ask them to bring in a couple of items, and the idea was that I was going to keep the items for a week and then they would be returned back to the patient just to kind of see and to get a gage like you know kind of like an actual behavioral design or experiment to check what their distress level was regarding parting with the item at the moment. But even if you know it’s not going to be thrown away, is it still difficult to not have it and to wonder what I’m going to do with the item? And so that’s kind of one way—I would say most of the time people don’t have a problem, or at least from my own small sample of anecdotal evidence, I don’t have a lot of people telling me that they’re distressed if things get thrown away. But [INAUDIBLE] have been some occasions where someone felt [INAUDIBLE] something away, you know? And they got very upset about it, they got very angry, they couldn’t let it go, they’re still thinking about it staying in my office, and so it’s kind of sometimes easy to determine the distress. That patient I mentioned earlier, there was in incident in which it was much harder to determine. He was very—he was like, you know, we tried to asses hoarding and he was like, “I’m not a hoarder.” And then just answered zero on all the items on the hoarding scale, because he claimed he wasn’t distressed, but it was unclear to see. I would actually have to physically do an experiment we would go there and kind of toss away some of these things that are clearly trash and see how he reacts or responds. For the most part, I feel like people are more easily able to tell me that they’re highly distressed by the thought of getting rid of things.
Interviewer: So, they are able to self-identify themselves as having distress?
Interviewee: Yes, they are not as able to identify the impairment, I would say, that’s where the insight comes in for me. So, they’re not as able to determine that it’s a problem but they are able to tell me that, “yes it’s very distressing and if I were to get rid of this I would be very upset or sad or angry”.Interviewer: So that brings us nicely into the next section of the interview which focuses on the question of insight. And so, as we’ve talked about a lot of the literature surrounding hoarding disorder describes many hoarding patients as having low insight, and so the first question to start out with is how would you as a clinician define insight?
Interviewee: I mean think that I often times define it in impairment as well. It’s like, are they able to recognize the level of impairment that is coming from behaviors that they’re currently engaging in? And if they’re not able to—let’s say it’s causing significant conflict with a spouse, they are pretty much sleeping on the floor somewhere randomly in their home and they have to wash their face at work or something like that, brush their teeth, then I would say not understanding or recognizing that these behaviors are to some degree not normal is how I kind of think about the patient’s ability to understand he repercussions of what’s happening or how it’s affecting their everyday lives.
Interviewer: Mmhm, so like acknowledgement of distress.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: For the patients that you’ve seen, how much insight do they tend to have by the time they get to you? What level of insight do you think that most levels of patients that you’ve seen are?
Interviewee: Let me think of some of the patients that I remember treating. I can think about five patients off hand and I’ve only remember one out of the five actually having poor insight. The others all had I think really high insight into their problems.
Interviewer: And in your experience with the patients that you’ve seen, do you have any knowledge of how they came to gain that insight on their own or what the process was of them realizing their disorder?
Interviewee: For most of them it became impairment. So one lady, she had hoarded her home literally to the brim and was living in an extended stay hotel for over a year, and he was getting herself into a lot of financial difficulty because she had a monthly payment on a home she could not live in, she was paying for a hotel every single night, she had started to hoard the hotel room to the brim, and they had to obviously come and check on the room from time to time and she had been cited by them, I think, for being a fire hazard in the room. So, she was able to come to the conclusion for herself, “this is a problem, I need help”. The other lady had a conflict with her husband who was an artist, and she was having some conflict with him about the finances and the status of their home given her excessive shopping and inability to get rid of things. Another patient had a similar financial problem, she owned like three homes and financially was in a lot of difficulty because she had owned the homes originally to rent it out as rental properties, but then started using them as a place to store her items that she was hoarding and was not able to afford the mortgages on them without having this supplemental income. So, she also was kind of at the tipping point for knowing that it was an issue and needing to seek help.Interviewer: So, in the literature there’s been a breakdown of the concept of insight into kind of different constructs, and I’ll just read you the construct and I’d like to talk through with you if you think that these are good constructs, if you see some of them more than others, if you think that some of them are more salient at different times or different patients. So, one of them is defensiveness, one of them is anosognosia—total inability to perceive an illness or that something is wrong or causing a distress or reducing the quality of your life; one is overvalued ideation, the actual belief in the potential value of items, so more of a delusion sort of thing; one is indifference. I’ll go through the list again if that would be helpful.
Interviewee: That would be.
Interviewer: Defensiveness, so feeling the need to defend your behavior as a problem with insight; anosognosia, so not seeing it as an illness; overvalued ideation, or believing that, actually being more of a delusion that items are actually more valuable than they are; or being indifferent. So, in your experience, which of these insight-related issues is the most salient for patients with hoarding disorder? Which is the most important for you with patients with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: That’s a good question, I’ve definitely seen the first three in patients. I haven’t as much seen the last one but definitely the first three. Overvalued ideation is definitely something that comes up, I don’t know that I ever think about it in a delusion kind of sense because I think it’s not uncommon to have some sort of an attachment to an item that maybe someone close to you gave you, but maybe, like I said, it’s more or less the number of items they apply that same concept to. So, it’s like the concept itself isn’t bad but it’s just the way in which they apply it is almost like overkill. And then I’ve definitely seen a defensive style thinking about a patient who really didn’t think she had a problem got very defensive and it was causing these issues with her daughter, felt like it was her daughter’s problem not hers, and really at all didn’t not see her behavior as an illness or problematic despite the fact that she was living in pretty severe squalor as well.
Interviewer: And when you try to approach a patient who has low insight, what are some of the ways in which you help a patient to gain insight?
Interviewee: I guess sometimes I try to do, in my approach, kind of like alongside of reflecting back like you don’t see this as a problem so you can’t think of ways in which this isn’t the best for you. So, trying to get them to illicit that kind of change talk in how maybe it is impacting them. Also getting at like, “so what do you think are some of the reasons that this is causing a problem for yourself?” It’s just getting them to come up with these things on their own because they’re always told it’s a problem and that it’s wrong, but it’s not a conversation.Interviewer: So rather than trying to force it on them, you get them to kind of say it.
Interviewee: Yeah, versus getting them to understand what are some of the benefits of changing the behavior? What are some of the cons of changing this behavior? What are some of the benefits of not changing? What are some of the cons of not changing? So just really like changing that approach to getting them to elicit some of the reasons why change might be helpful or might create less stress for them and working with them there. The other thing that I typically do is try to get them to think about, you know, it’s reasonable to want to save things, it’s reasonable to think that you may be able to use them again in the future if it’s sentimental or that kind of thing, but also getting them to think about are these things that are really easy for you to get rid of that you’re just not getting rid of right now? And so, kind of getting them to start on the smaller scale and working their way up.
Interviewer: One thing that we wanted to talk about, and I’m getting towards the end of the time that we have today so I want to make sure to get these last couple of questions in, when you talk to patients with hoarding problems, what—and this might be a difficult question for you to answer to feel free to tell me—when you talk to patients with hoarding problems, what ideas do they have about what’s caused them to have these problems? What do they think?
Interviewee: That’s actually a great question, I’ve actually talked with the people that I’ve worked with a lot. So, one of the ladies that comes to mind, I was working at her home disability [INAUDIBLE] and she was staying in the extended stay. We worked on her home for over a year and we would spend a lot of time while we sorting and organizing trying to do decluttering exercises and talking about what caused it. She really linked it to a rape that had happened to her in her late teen kind of early adulthood period, as well as a number or string of stressful life events that occurred relative to a decade of time and she actually had become morbidly obese as well and she basically said that, “no one would break into my home or try to hurt me if I am obese and if they can’t really get into my home.”Interviewer: That’s interesting, so she kind of saw hoarding as a self-protective, almost like a creation of a shell or a safe space?
Interviewee: Yes! Yes, that’s a great way to put it, like a shell or a safe place. And also she derived a lot of pleasure from it and obviously being someone who had been traumatized, she wanted to have a pleasurable experience and acquiring was one way in which she could do that. For some of the other patients, I have another patient that I saw for a while—I’ve never seen a more clear-cut case of actual cognitive deficit in a patient that may have led to hoarding as well as kind of impulsivity, and so it’s kind of different to see these different kinds of cases and how they manifested and what maybe led to their hoarding. For her, it was definitely like, she, I gave her a sorting task once and it took her like 12 minutes to sort 20 items that were clearly could be sorted in two minutes, and it was these five categories like newspapers, magazines, toiletry items, clothing items, that kind of thing, and she had significant difficulty attending, just making decisions about where things should go, wanting to kind of be right about a decision. Her hoarding seemed to stem a lot from this kind of problem as well as this kind of pleasure that would derive from her acquiring things and thinking like, “I may be able to use this thing in the future” or “this was given to me by someone”. She had every mardi gras cup she had ever collected every time she had been to mardi gras, and as a person who also saves a couple of mardi gras cups to kind of have for nostalgia reasons, I would never keep every single one. And for her if she got rid of one cup it truly meant that she had gotten rid of every single memory for her if she got rid of all of them at once.
Interviewer: That kind of brings me to the next question really nicely, which is, again this might be different for different patients or it might be very difficult to say but, do you think that the explanations that people give to justify their hoarding behavior are post hoc justifications for an underlying pathological need? Do you think that the cognition justifies something that’s going on in the brain and is justifying it, or do you think that the justifications are actually what’s causing the behavior?
Interviewee: Gosh, that’s a very good question. To be honest, I think it’s both. I think that you could have—I mean when I think of other kind of like underlying cognitive mechanisms and factors just with any disorder, even with PTSD, having this bias that the world may be a dangerous place to be something that I kind of have early on, but then these experiences that I have reinforce that belief. And so I think that for hoarders it could be a little bit of both, maybe like there are some beliefs that they have that are them for some reason reinforced by these experiences and then they’re also post hoc reasons as to why they’re doing it.
Interviewer: Yeah, I agree that it’s a very difficult question to answer and it’s been very interesting.
Interviewee: Yeah, the questions you’re asking are so fascinating.Interviewer: The last question I want to ask is also a hard question to answer and I just kind of want to hear you think through it. Do you think that hoarding disorder and the things that kind of play into people’s acquisition and keeping things, do you think that there is an aspect to which cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions and ownership, do you think that there’s any association between those two kinds of ideas in hoarding?
Interviewee: I think it would be hard for there not to be. Yeah, I think there definitely is. I mean I know hoarding can exist in the absence of these things and it’s something that’s been around for a really long time and doesn’t necessarily, I know that the early conceptualizations or theories about hoarding and its arising from not having a lot or being less fortunate has never [INAUDIBLE] in the literature but I can’t help but think that the culture and the ay that they live now and this idea of being able to readily consume things doesn’t feed into that or doesn’t exacerbate a problem that we have. You know just think about attention deficit in children and how they’re like, there are a probably more things drawing their attention now than there would’ve been decades ago and how that maybe has influenced the course or the nature of the disorder and how we see it.
Interviewer: I guess kind of along those lines, have you seen instances in which either hoarding disorder—these days there’s a lot of talk about associating memories with items through souvenirs or through photographs. I guess it’s not really a new thing but culturally there’s a lot of association with needing to save memories as physicals objects as opposed to just saving memories. Do you think that that could have anything to do with the development of hoarding disorder, just because it seems like many hoarders talk about their possessions in terms of memory and forgetting?
Interviewee: Yeah, and what’s the question? I’m sorry, I get where you’re going but what was the actual question?
Interviewer: Yeah, no, I guess I just wanted to talk about that or to see if you had any thoughts on that issue of if you had encountered that?
Interviewee: I definitely have, I mean thinking about Mardi Gras like I said earlier, almost like every memory she had of Mardi Gras would be erased if she got rid of all the cups or maybe all the cups but one. She was very fearful that she would forget about that time, which I just found interesting.
Interviewer: And it’s interesting because it doesn’t sound like the cups were necessarily a reminder that the event existed, but more something in between, you know what I mean, more of like a physical acknowledgement.
Interviewee: Representation of that, yes. Yeah, I also remember her not being able to get rid of any wrapping paper that had been given to her, like as a gift from a friend, she had saved every bit of wrapping paper, any gift that was given to her she had saved the wrapping paper that went around the gift even if the wrapping paper had been torn off and couldn’t be used again it because it was a reminder of that friend and the gift and almost like she wouldn’t remember the friend, or it would be a spite to the friend if she got rid of it, which was very interesting to me.Interviewer: Is your sense that people are actually afraid of losing the memory and forgetting if they get rid of the item? Like they think that the memory will be gone and they will forget the memory or is it--?
Interviewee: Yes, I think that they definitely think that and as a part of my master’s thesis I actually did a memory [INAUDIBLE] and hoarders actually have really great memories, and that’s been another interesting finding in the literature, that the memory deficits are all perceived, they’re not actually there. But there is this fear of forgetting or not remembering something.
Interviewer: That is so interesting. I don’t think that’s ever come up in an interview before but that is, I think that brings very true...it’s something that nobody else has picked up on and something that I’d like to talk to you about.
Interviewee: Yeah, it’s definitely fascinating. I did a verbal [INAUDIBLE] test where there were asked to recite items and even like a 20-minute delay when I go back and reassess these 20 items that they’re told to remember, and it was fascinating to see time and time again hoarders—because that’s who I recruited for my thesis—just like remember every single item I had said. But it also makes sense to me because they can remember where an item is in their home even if it’s buried among like, I mean I can barely find my keys and my home is really organized, and they can tell you where this random sheet of paper is.
Interviewer: But for you and your experience with these patients at the same time they have kind of a fear of losing memories. Do you feel like, so we talked a little bit about this inappropriate valuation kind of inability to distinguish between things that are valuable and things that are less valuable, do you think that that extends to memories as well? That they have trouble distinguishing between things that that should be remembered and things that are able to be forgotten?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah, I don’t think I’ve ever thought about that but yes.
Interviewer: Interesting, that was really interesting, I unfortunately am at the end of my time with you today, but I would love to continue this conversation.