Interviewer: Okay. So that's our free listing section of the interview. Now we're going to move into a more, kind of, free flowing conversational proportion. And just to begin, I would like if you wouldn't mind for you to just give me a brief introduction of your background related to hoarding disorder, your education and how you are involved with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: A Ph.D. in Behavioral Analysis and my thesis was on hoarding in animal models, of the neural basis and evolution of hoarding in non-humans. And, then I studied patients with brain damage in the hospital for my fellowship after Grad school, and we studied hoarding disorder in humans in the post doc. And as a faculty I do research on hoarding disorder, but most of it is on individual differences in hoarding disorder, not clinical hoarding or clinical treatment, but individual differences.
Interviewer: What do you mean by individual differences?
Interviewee: People who are not clinically diagnosed who vary on the degree to which they express tendencies for hoarding.
Interviewer: Okay. Okay, that makes sense. That’s interesting. Well good, then this will be a very interesting interview, I think. The first part of the interview kind of examines that border between what constitutes hoarding disorder and what doesn't. So the first question I have for you is what in your mind are the most important differences between something that might be considered normal saving behavior? Or even on the extreme end of normal saving behavior, such as collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think it’s normal, and everyone, to some degree, saves things they think might be useful or memorabilia. And I think it’s normal for people to have trouble discarding things. It’s like a different difficult decision process, but I think you have hoarding disorder when you actually have a full environment.
Interviewer: Okay. So the environment being full is what really distinguishes somebody who is just a saver who is not a clinical, not clinically diagnosed as hoarding disorder. So the environment itself is what distinguishes it.
Interviewee: I would say for the most part, but I’d say someone with a clinical disorder is not receptive or malleable like, to intervention.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: So like, if it’s a person who has a hoarding tendency but they don’t have a disorder, if you went to their house and you tried to help them go through things, they can probably do it. But then if you go to somebody with real hoarding disorder’s house and, you know, why wouldn’t you get rid of this and this and this? Because, you know, you probably won’t use it. When’s the last time you’ve used it? I don’t think they’re, like, well, what’s the right word, receptive to that kind of thing.
Interviewer: Okay. That makes sense.
Interviewee: They’re more resistant than a typical person.Interviewer: Right. So there's a resistance to the idea of discarding. So this is a question that I think will be particularly interesting to ask you. So can you think of cases, either a specific case or multiple specific cases, that was a challenge to decide or to diagnose clinically or in research because it was really right on that border between pathological and non-pathological behavior or some subclinical? Did you ever…?
Interviewee: What’s the question exactly? I understand the context, I was, what’s the question?
Interviewer: Yeah. Just to have you talk through a specific case that was particularly difficult to decide whether or not it constituted hoarding disorder and how you ended up making the decision, of what, of what it was or what it wasn't.
Interviewee: Well, for example, we have cases where people have extremely full areas of the house, like a garage or basement or an attic. And they’re, like, very emotional and resistant to help in the same way that I described. But like, they have a fairly normal, maybe cluttered, but fairly normal living environment, or like most of the rooms that are fine, just cluttered. So there’s like, distress in the family, there’s, like, stress and extra work times by the number of items. There’s obviously a problem with having too many, and having trouble letting go. But it’s not to a degree where anyone needs to, like, call the police. Like, they’re like [INAUDIBLE] managing because they’re separating, like, storage areas from living areas. And so I wouldn’t call that hoarding disorder, I would just call that like hoarding problem, let’s say, or tendency.
Interviewer: So it really is a matter of how much of their spaces is used up. And so for you—
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: —the kind of more borderline cases are cases where much of the space is used up or a significant amount of space, but not all of it. There's still some somehow balancing they're hoarding tendencies with the need to use their space normally. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: And what about cases that exist either concomitantly or are difficult to distinguish from other mental disorders such as like, a patient who is depressed, who is having trouble discarding or a patient who has Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and is having trouble discarding. Do you find that those distinctions are difficult to make?
Interviewee: Not really. I think that people commonly have hoarding with anxiety and depression and OCD. So even though it can be considered its own thing, it is so often concurrent with these disorders that if they have the house full of junk, then I would just consider it hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Okay. What about a case in which people are saving only particular kinds of items? So their house is completely filled with like sports memorabilia or something like that, but not indiscriminate items?
Interviewee: Yeah. I don’t think I would call that hoarding disorder because it’s so rare for someone with a particular proclivity to actually overfill the home to the point where they can’t use it. Like, it’s just not normally the case like with hoarding disorder. You know, it’s like they say in one of the diagnosis quotes to the point of including things with little to no value. And, so like, somebody who was a collector, even if it’s a lot of stuff, and it takes up a lot of space. I think it very rarely passes that threshold.Interviewer: So, yeah that’s a good transition. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about the DSM-5 criteria. So you mentioned the difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value. I'm wondering again, in these cases, you know, in some cases people are saving things that are clearly like trash, but how do you go about determining their actual value? So again, in a case where people are saving things that, you know, it could potentially have value or they are, you mentioned earlier in the free list, like collectors items. How do you decide if, how do you use that value criteria in the DSM-5 criteria?
Interviewee: Well, there’s a lot of objects in hoarding where, like you paid money for it, but then as a used item, it’s almost worthless. So, like a binder at Staples could be like 9.99, but if you try to sell it on EBay, you’ll probably get thirteen cents. Nobody would even buy it. So, like, there’s hundreds of those binders at the salvage mart because people have so many, they’re like super abundant. So, like, even though you bought something for money, doesn’t mean it has value once you’ve already bought it and used it, or even not used it. So, like, I think of it in terms of retail value. So, like, if you tried to, like, it’s like a market force, right? So, things that are little to no value, is, to me, in the eye of the market.
Interviewer: Okay. So literal—
Interviewee: So, if they wanted to sell it, would they get really money for it that would be the [INAUDIBLE] of lunch more than like, pocket change.
Interviewer: Again, I know that this is not a typical thing that you see, but would it be possible for somebody to hoard items that did have resale value? Like hypothetically, they filled their whole house and they have no usable space but they’ve filled it with, you know, like Picasso's or whatever and they can't move in their house and it's just stacked floor to ceiling. But the items that they're hoarding are actually objectively valuable.
Interviewee: I think that is extremely rare…
Interviewer: Sure.
Interviewee: … to think this, this extremely rare, it’s certainly not like, very typical case.
Interviewer: Okay. Okay, that makes sense.
Interviewee: Yeah. The only cases I can think of is when like, it would be in somebody’s, almost job or life’s work, to acquire and sell those items. Like if you’re the Picasso, and you have all these paintings, you might have a house full of paintings, right? Because you painted them and it’s your job to sell them. Or, if you’re a guy that fixes people’s stereos, you’d have like half used stereos all over your house, but it’s part of how you earn your living or your identity. So, it’s like, it’s sensible. I wouldn’t call that hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Even if it substantially compromises the intended use of the space?
Interviewee: Yeah, I would say [INAUDIBLE], like there’s some, like, magical case where it has no bearing on their life, and now, I just think it’s like so unlikely, I’ll just sign off.Interviewer: Okay. So, kind of taking a step back from the DSM-5 criteria, when you think about the criteria overall, are there any elements of the criteria that you find particularly difficult to apply to patients or that you sometimes wonder that different clinicians might apply differently or that are more or less reliant on clinical judgment?
Interviewee: I think it’s weird for them to say that it has to include distress, to a point of distress, because the patients have so little insight and they’re so, like, self-justifying in their behavior. It’s usually the other people who are distressed, like the spouse or the children or the neighbors. It's usually not like the patient who's distressed, except for the fact that they're distressed, that everyone's bothering them about having this stuff. They're not usually distressed about this stuff itself as much as other people are distressed because of that.
Interviewer: I understand.
Interviewee: Which is a reason I think it's hard to treat because they don't show up at the clinic because they don't want help. They don’t want to have to get rid of their stuff, which is what you would want them to do if they showed up for help. So…
Interviewer: Right, so the problem with—
Interviewee: That’s what I think is weird.
Interviewer: —yeah, the problem with insight prevents them from being distressed unless, unless somebody is trying to take their stuff away essentially.
Interviewee: Right. Right, right.
Interviewer: So there's this part of the criteria where it says the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises intended use. And so the first part of this that I'm wondering is, it’s, from the conversation we've had so far, it sounds like to determine if someone has hoarding disorder, it really has to be obstructing their ability to use their home. And so I'm wondering, first of all, if somebody who, if there's a part of this that depends on how much they say have, so for instance, is it easier to be a hoarder if you live in a trailer as opposed to if you live in a huge house with multiple storage units? Is that a part of this distress resulting from accumulation in a space and not being able to use that space?
Interviewee: I would say no because I think people buy and still to the extent of the space and capacity for doing so. So like, it’s possible that somebody that has a small environment, has a lot of stuff. Like if you had one of those Manhattan or Japanese tiny apartments, you know, your bed and your books, and your backpack and your bike will all be, like, crammed in your space. And that wouldn’t be like free flowing to walk around, but it’s not full of quasi junk.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: Like, that you should be getting rid of but refuse to, it’s filled with stuff like you actually need but you have trouble finding somewhere to put it. So like, if you lived in a trailer or small home you might have like, a bedroom or like an area that’s overfilled with all the random stuff you don’t know what to do with that a rich person would put in their basement or their huge garage or their huge attic. But it’s qualitatively distinct from somebody who has, like, piles of junk stacked high that they have to like, make it past through.Interviewer: And kind of along the same lines, when you say substantially compromises the intended use of the space. So, it, you know, there are cases in which people might decide to use, for example, a guest room as a storage area or a bathroom as a storage area. So, or even a kitchen, you know, if they don't cook, they could store things in their kitchen conceivably. Do you feel like this is something that plays into the use of this criteria? Like how do you determine intended use or is it really not even a, not even a factor in the diagnosis? Is it pretty clear?
Interviewee: I don't think it matters what culture was assigned the use for that room, I just think it matters like, what you need to be doing on a daily basis is compromised. So like, have you don't have, you can't sleep on a bed because crammed with stuff and you can't watch TV, when you can't walk from this room to that room and you can't get to items in a room, like it's dependent on what like, normal living and movement required doesn't really matter what the room was assigned to them.
Interviewer: Okay. That makes sense. And kind of just as a follow up, so this is just kind of a speculative question, but in the same way that some people might really prefer to work in a, you know, like on a desk that's clear and that doesn't have any items out on it. Other people work on desks that are very cluttered and have papers everywhere. Do you feel like hoarding disorder could be some kind of variation in the amount of, the amount of clutter that one feels comfortable with or the amount of space that's taken up by things in a home? So…
Interviewee: I do think that’s a factor, yes.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: I think because of the fear element, having the item surrounding a person, it’s like literally a sense of security and they feel uncomfortable in empty areas or cleared out areas. So I definitely think that’s like a strong component.
Interviewer: So, when people with hoarding disorder prefer cluttered spaces aesthetically almost, they feel more comfortable in them.
Interviewee: And not even cluttered, but like literally fortress-like.
Interviewer: And you kind of already spoke to this last criteria that I was going to ask you about, about, distress. And you brought up the idea that sometimes patients don't have the insight to know that they're distressed or to have distress. So I'd like to turn the interview to talking about insight pretty briefly. So the literature surrounding hoarding disorder describes hoarders is having low insight. How would you define insight?
Interviewee: Being aware that you have a problem that is not typical and that would be better off un-needing it.
Interviewer: Sure.
Interviewee: It would be better for the individual, in themselves, if it were addressed.Interviewer: When you see patients in your research, how much insight do they tend to have when you first see them?
Interviewee: I actually think, like the people I see, are not in the clinic, they’re coming for research, and they responded to an ad for pack rats or hoarders. So they know they self-identify as being one of those people. But I would say they, we intentionally use the word pack rat because we don’t want it to have like a value judgment, like you have a problem per se, more like there’s this quirky thing about you. I think they’ll agree to that. So they all know like, oh I have a lot of stuff and people think I'm weird and people think I have too much stuff and all that stuff, really good stuff. You know? I think they're aware of it to that extent. I don't think they're particularly aware of like any mental health concerns that might be feeding into their drive toward the goods. They just take it at face value that they like this stuff.
Interviewer: So it sounds like they may have pretty low insight, for the most part.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: So in the literature, there's this, there's this paper published by [NAME]  about the concept of insight, which broke the concept down into different constructs. So I'm going to read you the list of the constructs that he came up with and I'd like you to just talk through whether any of them seem more or less important in your experience. The first one is defensiveness. The second one is anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive an illness where that's something is wrong with your life. The third one is overvalued ideation. So believing in that the potential value of items is more than it is and it can be my mild or it can be delusional. And then the final one is indifference. So with your patients that you see in research, what, which if any of these concepts, or these constructs that go into insight is most important?
Interviewee: I’d say that I would agree with the existence of all of them. Can you just say the labels quickly one more time and I’ll pick a winner?
Interviewee: So defensiveness.
Interviewee: Defensiveness.
Interviewer: Anosognosia, so not being able to perceive your illness at all or that anything is wrong. Overvalued ideation, which is a persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items that can range from mild to delusional, or else indifference or you just don't, don't really care, if there is a problem.
Interviewee: I think that over-valuing is the winner, and defensiveness is a problem. You can’t address the overvaluation because of the defensiveness.
Interviewer: So they’re related in that way. So it sounds like for your patients with low insight, it is almost like a delusion when they look at their things, they see something different than what other people would see.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: So they look at the same pile of items and they, they see, you know, that it would be, they would estimate that it will be worth a thousand dollars, whereas, you know, you would estimate that it'd be worth nothing or smaller amount of money.
Interviewee: Right.Interviewer: Right. So, we talked a little bit earlier about the different reasons that people with hoarding disorder give for their behavior. You know, we talked about the belief that it might be valuable, that they might need it later. Do you feel that these justifications for hoarding behavior are post hoc reasons to justify what is essentially an underlying biological need or pathological need? So, to rephrase that question, which comes first, you know, the explanation for saving or the saving, do people just save and then justify their behavior or are these reasons that they give really the reasons that they do it?
Interviewee: I think that’s a very difficult question to answer. I don’t think there’s research telling us the answer one way or another. But I do think that the core there’s like something in-between the two, which is like an instinct, an instinct to not release value but to hold on to something. And the instinct can be given like fancier sounding explanations that sound more logical than just like an urge or instinct, but yeah. I would say I’m voting for something in-between. And if you make me pick, I’ll pick the biological first and then the explanation.
Interviewer: So, when you typically see patients for your research, what do they tell you about how long their behavior has been going on? When did it start generally in the course of their life?
Interviewee: Sure. My impression that there’s like signs of it early on, and especially in like adolescence and young adulthood, but it does not become a real problem until adulthood.
Interviewer: Okay. And is your sense of why that I because the behavior itself worsens like a progressive disorder, or is it more related to social forces, ;ike having the ability to have your own house or becoming socially isolated?
Interviewee: I would say it has to be both.
Interviewer: Okay. So both progressive and related to social process.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: What does it, do you find that there's a relationship between these behaviors and, so again, it's kind of a chicken and the egg or a causation problem. Do people who are hoarders tend to be more isolated or, or do you think that it's more that their hoarding makes them isolated.
Interviewee: No, I think they start, they’re more isolated.
Interviewer: Okay. So they’re more isolated to begin with. Okay.
Interviewee: I think just like fear and anxiety, and then depression that feeds into hoarding disorder makes people, yeah, prefer to be alone and to protect themselves from others.Interviewer: Okay. Okay. And do you ever think that, perhaps there are cultural forces associating one sense of value and self worth with consumption or ownership of material possessions and that that plays into the development of hoarding disorder? So the idea that, you know, one is a more valuable or more worthy person when one owns more valuable things are one, one has nice things. Do you feel like that's a part of it?
Interviewee: Sure. Like, I mean I think like the American culture shifted after like the post industrialization and then they have all these things that culture promoted for people to have to be fancy like China and our collections of things and collectors items. And those were things that society really created a drive for that are, that’s just fairly like inherent to life and culture. And to some extent we're still living with that, but to that general, like, ethos we've added super abundance of goods. I think that is actually like the most compathic factor.
Interviewer: Okay. And what about the relationship between hoarding behaviors and memory? So you mentioned earlier that people with hoarding disorder will say that they are saving things so they don't forget an event. What do you think, what do you think is the relationship between the behavior and the sense of memory or what people think about memory?
Interviewee: I don’t think it’s as strong as other factors. I think that there can be things that are memorabilia that people keep. But that’s not, like, the majority of items when there’s like a problem. That’s probably like a majority. It might be like almost a majority of items than a regular person, but that's, true memorabilia is not going to create hoarding disorder because there's just not enough of those items. But, and somebody might keep things like paperwork and bills so that they could like look it up later if they need to. Or like coupons, like kind of paperwork stuff people hold onto. But again, I, or like an article, they want to remember to show someone. But again, I don't think that's like a majority of items or like just like the defining reasons.
Interviewer: Okay. So it might be a part of why people might say that they save things, but you don't think that, for example, people with hoarding disorders are more anxious about their memories or feel like they have poor memories or anything like that?
Interviewee: There was a research study that said they do think they have poor memories.
Interviewer: Okay. And, but in your experience, it’s not every patient.
Interviewee: I don’t think it’s like, a requisite necessary or sufficient.Interviewer: Okay. Okay. Well so that's the, that's most of the questions that I have for you today. I really appreciate your time. These were very interesting questions to go through with you. Just to close out, I'd like to ask you a really big vague question. So for you, what do you think the biggest things that we still don't know about hoarding disorder are? Or if you could answer one question about hoarding disorder, what would it be?
Interviewee: I think there’s probably like an early developmental sequence, like an epigenetic sequence that combines like a genetic predisposition and early life experience to create this hoarding disorder. Like, harsh criticism from parents who also shows like an over episode that good, and that, social anxiety and fear, like soul meant this urge and I feel like there's lots of research studies on any one individual factor, but not like this holistic picture of how like your genes and your parenting and your attachment and your mental health problems converge and combine to create this, like I call it final common pathway.
Interviewer: So the ways that all these different factors come together.
Interviewee: Correct.
Interviewer: Okay. Well, I really appreciate your time today. Thank you so much for speaking with me.