Interviewer: So, we're gonna talk more about that as we go through the interview. Those are all the listing prompts that I have for you and I'd kind of like to dive into the more free form portion one. The way that I like to start out is have you talk through from your perspective as a clinician, what are the biggest and most important differences that in your mind distinguish people with hoarding problems form normal saving behavior, maybe perhaps extreme collecting, and this disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, so it's interesting that part of it really kind of depends upon the space that the person is living in and the number of possessions. Like, some people may tend to hang onto things and have a cluttered garage or something like that, but it really becomes a hoarding problem when the number of possessions just vastly takes over the spaces. But in a funny way, someone who lives in a suburban mansion can have an equal number of possessions as someone and not have a hoarding problem as compared to someone who really has a hoarding problem because they live in a small apartment with a high number of possessions.
Interviewer: That's actually something I was gonna ask you about later in the interview. So, if you have two patients, one of whom has a lot of control over their space, has like you said a suburban mansion with many many many rooms and perhaps the capacity to buy multiple storage units, and you have another patient who's living in a very small apartment or a trailer and they're exhibiting the same behavior, like let's say for the sake of argument, literally the same behavior, they have the same number of items, one of their spaces is going to be extremely congested and the other one, you might not see the items at all. So, do they both have hoarding problems? Are they both going to get the diagnosis? Is neither of them? It's kind of a question.
Interviewee: No, so I wouldn't make the hoarding diagnosis unless there's impairment, and impairment would come from the lack of functionality of the space or the distress level. Like if somebody lives in that mansion and they have a ton of possessions and it doesn't clutter any rooms, really because there's so many rooms, and it doesn't bother them that they have so many possessions, I would not diagnose them with hoarding disorder.Interviewer: Yeah, and I mean, so this is a question that we ask clinicians during this interview every time, and I guess the kind of sticking point or the rub, the followup is that distress criteria. So, if hoarders have low insight and they're not necessarily distressed by their own behavior, is somebody who's not experiencing what they would call distress, who prefers to keep their possessions rather than say, you know, have a social life, are they going to get the diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean, it doesn't necessarily, in my conceptualization of it the way I always try to make diagnosis is distress doesn't narrowly have to be experienced by the individual in the primary sense. Could be secondary distress, that there's arguments about the primary hoarding problem, but the distress could come at the absence of socializing or impaired social functioning, that's still social impairment, even if it's not distress. Someone who has schizoid personality disorder and no interpersonal relationships, they may not be bothered by not having personal relationships, but you would still say that their socializing is impaired. Someone who's a psychopathic deviate is perhaps not distressed by it causing harm to other people, but they're stressing others.
Interviewer: So, when in the DSM-V criteria it says, "This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save items and to distress associated with discarding them, that criteria you applied meaning specifically they experience distress if they discard. They might not be distressed about the presence of the items, but hypothetically discarding causes them distress?
Interviewee: Yeah, no, I mean many people are not distressed at all by the presence of the items, it would be just if they parted with the items or they maybe stressed by the arguments or the embarrassment that comes as a secondary result of the presence of the items.
Interviewer: Okay, I want to return to the idea of the space, and I'm wondering, is it just the amount of items that is what you're kind of looking for in addition to distress, or is it also an organizational issue? So, if somebody had their house completely full of items but they were all very orderly and they knew exactly where they were, would that still meet criteria?
Interviewee: Um, yeah so I think it matters completely about how it's organized and you can't go based on the total number of items, but it's whether the space is still functional and whether there's any hazard. If it is so many items that it's a fire hazard, even if it's organized, then you could still make the diagnosis I think. But someone who just has narrow little passageways to get through very well organized stacks of paper, but the stacks of paper are likely to collapse onto the person or cause a fire hazard, I would still give the diagnosis.Interviewer: So, the criteria there is about difficulty discarding possessions that congest and clutter living areas that substantially compromise intended use, as you just talked about. And, again, I kind of want to push on that and say, for instance if a person has multiple guest bedrooms that they're not using as bedrooms but they're instead using as storage spaces, is that compromising intended use? I mean, a bedroom only had to be a bedroom according to the architect that built the house, the person who lives in it could use their bedroom for storage and I guess, you could even push that further and say they could also use a bathroom for storage, if they have a spare bathroom, or even a stovetop if they don't cook. So, how do you make that determination in terms of compromising intended use? Is it just safety? Is that where you draw the line?
Interviewee: No, I think it depends on the way the person wants to use the space. If the person has a 10 bedroom house, and 5 of these spare bedrooms are storage, the other five are usable as guest bedrooms and they only have three relatives that come and visit and there's not necessarily impairment, because they have enough bedrooms to meet their needs. If they have spare bedrooms but they're all--even if they have one spare bedroom but it doesn't function as a spare bedroom when they would like to have company over, then there's impairment.
Interviewer: Mhhm, okay I've got it. So, it really depends on how they want to use their space and if they want to use it for so-called intended use, the intent is the patient's intent in that criteria.
Interviewee: Well, and the family intent. If the person is living with other people, if it's stressing the family system or the other occupants of the home, then even if the patient is saying, "Now, we have two bathrooms but we only use one because I'm using my second one as my storage" and the other family member is saying, "This pisses us off cuz now everyone has to share one shower," then there's dysfunction and I would give that diagnosis.
Interviewer: Mhhm. And have you ever encountered something that you might call a boarder line or a subclinical case of hoarding problems or hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Sure, yeah, I think it's the tachometric studies that adjust it on a range of severity and you know, some people have a level of clutter that approaches compromising or somewhat compromises the living space but doesn't all the way make it unusable, so sure.
Interviewer: So, you have to make diagnostic decisions in those cases based on how compromised the living space is.
Interviewee: Yeah, it's probably a range of things. How compromised the living space is, how much distress there is, how much impairment there is, and there might be more moderate or mild levels of distress or impairment.Interviewer: And how about kind of the comorbidity or is there ever confusion between different diagnosis? So, how would you make a distinction between someone who has comorbid depression and OCD versus a primary diagnosis of OCD plus hoarding? Is that ever a difficult distinction for you to make or do you feel like that's usually pretty straight forward?
Interviewee: No, I think it is difficult, it can be quite difficult, particularly with hoarding behavior as a result of OCD versus a hoarding behavior that's a hoarding disorder. I think in hoarding behavior that relates to OCD, it often goes along with some of the more cardinal features of OCD, like superstitious fears that if I throw this away and it was a possession of a friend of mine, that that friend will die in a car accident, or saving items because you need to decontaminate them before you part with them or something like that. And usually with OCD, there's a range of OCD behaviors and hoarding might just be one of them; whereas primary hoarding doesn't necessarily have a range of features and primary hoarding often the insight is lower and primary OCD often the insight's better. But it can be hard, and then obviously there are people who you know, live in clutter but not because they have difficulty discarding but because they're experiencing dementia or depression or something that makes it difficult for them to expend energy cleaning, but I wouldn't say that they have hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the first step for making the diagnosis is to look at the person's space and how their space is impairing their behavior, but then there's a second step that's kind of trying to figure out the root cause of that space and whether that space is driven by OCD-related thoughts, driven by depression or dementia, or driven by kind of a need to save that's a hoarding kind of need. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, that sounds right. Yeah, it's the function of the saving, is it hoarding related or is it something else?
Interviewer: So, now I'd like to talk just for another second about the DNS-V criteria. So, when you're applying these criteria, are there any elements of them that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that you've thought that maybe different clinicians might apply differently? Either things to do with the language or the use of clinical judgment?
Interviewee: Um, I mean I think it's relatively straight forward. I don't know, I don't necessarily for every person I see, I don't necessarily sit down and do the skid with them to tick them off, I kind of feel like it's sort of [INAUDIBLE] and you get like a gut sense that it's a hoarding problem. But I don't think there's anything about the--I think the criteria are way better than prior to DSM-V, which is a useful diagnosis.
Interviewer: And when you sit down with patients, do you have them bring picture of their space or do they describe their space?
Interviewee: Yeah, I do, I try to do home visits when possible so I can see it, but if not, then yes. Or I'll show them the clutter image rating so they can pick, but it is most helpful to just see their space. You know, most people can do that, just take a picture on their phone and show it to me.Interviewer: Um, I guess I want to return just for a second to this idea of space. Would it be possible in your mind for somebody to have hoarding problems but for those problems to be focused on digital media? So, somebody who saves PDFs of books the same way that somebody might save physical books, and all of their emails and have multiple hard drives where they're hoarding digital media? Would that fit criteria and how would you think about that in terms of the criteria?
Interviewee: Yeah, that's interesting. I've heard a little bit about this cyber hoarding or whatever, digital hoarding. I think there's a similarity in terms of like often there's a fear of making a mistake deleting something is similar to making a mistake throwing something away, but if I had to make a diagnosis I would probably make an OCD diagnosis, rather than a hoarding disorder diagnosis just because I feel like the physical clutter has to be present for hoarding. But I mean if there's both, if the person is digitally hoarding and they're physically hoarding, then maybe you could just go with a hoarding disorder diagnosis and not an OCD one.
Interviewer: Okay, now I'd like to turn to a conversation that's about the problem with insight. So we have this last criteria of distress, which we talked about in terms of it being the distress that would accompany discarding. And I wonder if, when you encounter patients who have lower insight, if you ever have difficulty getting them to express that distress if they're so in denial about the fact that they have a problem. That they might say something like, "Oh no, I could throw this away any time and it wouldn't bother me," despite the fact that they don't do that and if that ever presents a problem for you?
Interviewee: Yeah, definitely people will say stuff like that, "I could get [INAUDIBLE] if I wanted to, I just don't want to." And so I think the sort of denial is a real thing and sort of like an alcoholic saying, "I could quit anytime I want." But, yeah, so I think [INAUDIBLE] there's people out there, folks with hoarding problems who would like the general idea, it would be nice if I had fewer things, I would be happier, I would be better able to have people over, I would have fewer arguments with family members, but when it comes down to picking a specific item, they lose the forrest for the trees because they're focused on that particular item and they forget that bigger picture.
Interviewer: So, they might think generally it would be better for me if I had fewer things and I would like to discard, but in the particular instance, that's when they experience the distress.
Interviewee: Exactly, yeah.
Interviewer: Mhmm, that makes sense. Um, so I kind of want to take a step back from the problem of insight and ask you first of all how you think about this concept in your practice. How would you define insight?
Interviewee: Recognizing that the saving behaviors are excessive, or that they're problematic. Yeah, something like that.Interviewer: So excessive in the sense of above the norm or different from normal, and also causing problems in your life.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think most people could recognize that they own more possessions than other people, so they would be insightful in that sense; but, where they might not be insightful is recognizing that this is a problematic number of possessions to have given the space you're living in.
Interviewer: So, there was this paper about insight that was a publication of [NAME] where he broke the concept of insight into four different constructs for hoarding disorder specifically. And the constructs are defensiveness, anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive an illness, overvalued ideation, believing that items are more valuable than they are, and indifference. And I wonder if you feel like those resonate with your experience of insight and hoarding? Or if there are some that are more important in your mind than others in patients who have lower insight? I would read them again.
Interviewee: What was the first one?
Interviewer: Defensiveness, is the first one so being defensive about their items and wanting to make sure that people don't take them. Anosognosia, or not being able to perceive that's an illness at all or that anything is wrong or causing them distress. Overvalued ideation, which is when they believe that their objects are more valuable than they are, and that their behavior is rational because their objects are valuable. And being indifferent to the state of their home and the state of their space.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think probably in terms of which is more important, I think the first and the last. From what I've seen, there's not necessarily as much overvalued ideation in the sense that people really, like people will say, "I know I could live without this, but it's more that I just don't want to," which I think is probably a combination of...well the defensiveness is probably wanting to be in control and not wanting to be told what to do, and the indifference is kind of like, "Yeah the hoarding is bad, the stuff is there and it's sort of a problem and it's sort of not, or it doesn't bother me that much," kind of indifferent to it.Interviewer: Um, so I guess you don't see the anosognosia. That's a question I ask because some clinicians will describe that like patients will look at their space and be clutter blind, that they'll be unable to see the space for what it really is, and that almost sounds like, maybe not a delusion maybe that's too strong, but that's like an inability to perceive the reality of their situation and I wonder if you see that at all with your patients, or if you see it as maybe less common that patients really can't see the clutter?
Interviewee: I think the it can happen, but being in treatment is like a selection bias, when someone is in treatment, and in particular if you're doing home visits with them because you're there is a novel, a new set of eyes, it makes them see it too. But I think when people aren not in treatment and they're sort of in their day to day lives, they don't see it. They don't pay attention to it or they purposely let it slide out of their mind of they're acclimated to it so much they you know, they just don't notice it. But I do think when you go to someone's house with them, then they notice it because they're paying attention. It's probably more that they're just not paying attention day to day because they're acclimated and it doesn't jump out at them because they're so used to it. So, I do think maybe they're onto something in the article, but the people who are coming to treatment, it's either a selection bias or something about the treatment that sort of breaks through that.
Interviewer: Have you ever encountered in your practice an individual with animal hoarding?
Interviewee: I have not, no.
Interviewer: Okay. So, at what kind of stage of insight or how much insight do patients tend to have when you see them? So on your first visit with a patient, at what level of insight do they tend to be?
Interviewee: That's a good point, if they're having me come over, then they have sufficient insight to recognize that it's at least something that they want to involve a professional at. So, they have probably a little bit better insight than the folks who are not in treatment, so I would say they're insight is maybe moderate.
Interviewer: And what are some of the things that you talk about with patients or that you do with patients to help them to gain insight?
Interviewee: Um, I know there's like visualization exercises that we can do to like imagine things being different or ask them if the clutter wasn't an issue for them, what would their life look like to try to get at what the clutter is blocking them from, or what would be different if the clutter weren't there, to try to have something to move towards. I guess that's more motivation than insight. Insight might be more gained by sort of asking like, "Well what do other people tell you about this? Or what do other people say to you?" Things like that, or if the person is bizarre to other people, if the person is avoiding having people over, we ask them, "Why? What would someone else say?" Often people are embarrassed about having so much clutter, but the embarrassment comes from some part of them knows that it's not such a socially acceptable thing if they're embarrassed by it.Interviewer: And do you have any sense for the patients you see clinically of that process of how they got to your office, or of what started them down the road of seeking treatment if it was, if it's primarily social family members or if there's kind of like a commonality if they decide to come see you?
Interviewee: Yeah, no , it's a range of different things, like some people have come to see me because of themselves, because this has been a problem or something that I've wanted to work on for a long time and for whatever reason now is the time. But other people have come to see me because they're under threat of divorce, because someone is telling them that they need to do this.. this or me, type of thing.
Interviewer: Okay, so for kind of a conclusion of this interview I have some more speculative questions and I find that some people enjoy the process of speculation more than others, so if these sound like nonsense questions to you, that's fine. The first one is, we talked earlier in the interview about the reasons that people give for saving, the reasons that they give for keeping things like, "This might be useful later" or "I'm worried that I'll need this," and when you think about hoarding as a disorder, do you think that these things are kind of driving the behavior? So, they're really thinking, "I might need this" so they're saving it, or do you see hoarding as a behavior driven disorder in the sense of they have some underlying pathology that has caused them to want to save things, and then later after they've done the behavior, they've come up with a justification for that behavior sort of post-hoc? Do you have any sense for that process or any kind of.. I know that that's maybe not a testable question, but I guess I'm asking you to speculate about how that works.
Interviewee: Um, that's a good question. If I had to guess, I would say that when people are acquiring an item they have the thought, "Oh, this is nice," or "Oh, I could use this" and then they just save it. And I don't necessarily know if they like intend to save it forever when they get it, but once something is yours, you kind of feel like you own it and then it hurts you to part with it. So, I think it probably starts with the acquiring and the thoughts that the person has during the acquiring, and hen they're, you know they have a reason that they've got it and that's probably also the reason that they're saving it.
Interviewer: Mhhm, so something about the process of, like at the root of this disorder, something about the process of ownership or of making an object yours is what's driving this and that is the ... the thought behind it is really what's driving the disorder. So, they really are believing in the moment that whatever it is is gonna be useful or is gonna be valuable, and then once they've got it they can't kind of part with that reason. I don't know if that seems like a fair synopsis of what you just said.
Interviewee: Yeah, that makes sense. I mean [INAUDIBLE] that sounds like a good mechanism is plausible.Interviewer: Um, like I said, that's kind of a speculative question, that's not really a testable one. So, as I'm sure you're aware in the literature, hoarding disorder is described as something that primarily occurs in elderly people but there's more and more research about how it emerges over the course of a person's life, and from your clinical experience, do you have any sense of how the disorder develops? You know like, how long it's been going on before people come to see you, if people talk about it being something in their life their whole life or something that has only developed recently?
Interviewee: I think most people I see have a tendency to hang onto things, it has been there for like a long long time. So, starting more in like adolescence, but the switch getting flipped into like a real hoarding problem happens later, you know often it's like a gradual accumulation and then there could be some sort of life change that happens that makes things a lot worse or brings the problem up. Like if a person goes through a loss of a loved one, a spouse, a divorce, something like that, where if that other person had been sort of decluttering or keeping things at bay, and they're not there anymore then things can like take off a lot more.
Interviewer: So, that's kind of my next question, is your sense of that progression that it is, for example, related to trauma or neurocognitive decline over the life course, or it it more social in the sense that people who are older tend to be isolated and also to have had more time to accumulate items, and perhaps inherit them from parents dying and things like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it's one of the second ones, I don't think it's necessarily like a neuro, I mean I'm not a brain scientist, but I don't think it's necessarily like a neurological degenerative disease. I think it's more that as your life goes on you get more stuff, and you gradually accumulate more and when people pass away, you also accumulate all their stuff. So, I think it's more probably social factors than biological ones.
Interviewer: Um, well I really appreciate your time, that's all the questions I have for you, we went through them pretty quickly so I'm glad that I can give you back some of your time, which you have so nicely dedicated to doing this research with us so thank you.