Interviewer: Okay, so now we're gonna move onto the open-ended part of this interview. So just to begin, if you wouldn't mind setting the stage for me by briefly telling me your background related to hoarding disorder, your educational background, and whether you are a clinician who sees patients of a researcher or both.
Interviewee: So I'm an MD psychiatrist, I'm a clinician investigator. I've been working in the area of OCD since doing a fellowship in 1992 and in practice since 1992. I'm an academic who does research primarily on neurobiology, mainly genetics, of OCD and spectrum disorders, as well as developmental treatments and improving outcomes with treatment. My experience is primarily in OCD for the first 10-15 years of my career, and then gradually more inclusively to focus as well on OCD-related disorders. So, for the last 15 years or so, clinically working more with hoarding disorder, trichotillomania, and skin-picking disorder. I developed, I ran, I started running group protocols for CBT for hoarding and so I see individual cases for psychopharmacology and to some extent, for some individuals CBT typically limited by time constraints. I started running CBT groups for hoarding disorder about 10 years ago now, probably run about 8-10 CBT groups, began working on... I did training with [NAME] about 8 years ago. Let me think... limited research, trying to develop community initiatives to work with our community agency so that they would be more informed in the cluttering aspects that they had going by a CBT model, I've done extensive teaching in the community, I've co-organized or organized about 7 to 8 hoarding conferences, and about 8 OCD conferences in which we usually have a hoarding sub focus with seminars or workshops on hoarding. I've been consulted by a number of local, well Ontario actually, widely community groups, coalitions that they form, um, yeah, currently running more of a hurried treasure professionally lead, morphed model of group therapy for our clients here for our patients here.
Interviewer: Okay, thank you for that. Um, so it sounds like you have a very broad experience, both with individual patients, with research, and with working with communities. So, for the first part of our interview, we're trying to focus on how you conceive of hoarding as a disorder, how you diagnose it, how you know it when you see it. And then we're going to move to the discussion of insight, and the purpose of this process is to understand how clinicians are looking at hoarding disorder, and then to talk to patients about how they identify the disorder in themselves and the purpose of that is to help understand the patient process of gaining insight. So, for you as a clinician, what are some of the most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: So the excessive accumulation of material to the point that it impairs their ability to function. It's not organized as in a collection, it's not useful as in a collection, it takes over and impairs their ability to function. People with hoarding disorder typically are distressed by it, unlike collectors, and describe difficulty discarding, which collectors will not except perhaps in relation to the enlargement of their collection and material that may be a little peripheral to it. Excessive acquiring of items.Interviewer: So it sound like the biggest difference in your mind that there are kind of maybe, it sound like from what you just said maybe two main differences. One is that the items themselves are so excessive and exist in a disordered state that they can really impair the person's ability to function; while in a collection, you wouldn't expect such excessive acquisition and they would be more organized and it wouldn't impair function. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, and displayed suitably, maintained, controlled, yeah. Without the difficulty discarding, generally speaking, that we see in hoarders. So in hoarders, I look for a pervasive difficulty discarding, saving of everything, it's not thematically connected, it's not necessarily a collection at all, it has nothing to do with collecting, often the presence of insight, the recognition that it's excessive themselves but not always.
Interviewer: Could you have a person with hoarding disorder who hoards particular items? So, somebody who fills their home completely with cuckoo clocks or clown memorabilia. So, I guess what I'm getting at is is the non-discriminant aspect a key, or is it possible to have a patient with hoarding disorder who is discriminating to come extent, along the lines of the ways that a collector might?
Interviewee: I guess I've seen some who have that, I mean usually all hoarders gravitate to certain kinds of material. So, if it's newspaper I don't think most people would think of it as collecting, but I've also seen hoarders who's collection, one guy for example, who collected model cars. But, again, his accumulation of cars was excessive, he had multiples of cars, they had overtaken his home to the point that he could not live in it appropriately, could not have people over, was worried about it being a fire hazard and getting inspected, he identified himself as unable to discard things or part with things. And so, even though there was a thematic connection, and some qualities in common with a collector, it went way beyond.
Interviewer: Can you think of ever encountering a case or cases that was really on the borderline and was challenging to diagnose for that reason, where you were really unsure if it was hoarding disorder or not?
Interviewee: hoarding vs. collecting? No.
Interviewer: Hoarding versus collecting, no never?
Interviewee: No, I don't think so actually.
Interviewer: How about on the boarder between hoarding and an alternative diagnosis, such as OCD or depression? Do you find that distinction to be difficult to make sometimes clinically?
Interviewee: Generally not, generally not. I certainly will see a lot of hoarding disorder that is comorbid and exasperated by OCD, and I will see people with OCD who accumulate because of their OCD where I don't think it's hoarding, so I certainly see all the gray zones in there. I don't find that one causes me a whole lot of difficulty, generally speaking.Interviewer: And when you're telling between them, it seems like what you're saying is it goes back to the root cause of the behavior. That OCD can cause accumulation of items similar to hoarding disorder, but still be driven by OCD motivations.
Interviewee: Absolutely, so people with, I have numerous in my practice, with contamination concerns who can't touch things they're brought in the house because of cleanliness versus dirtiness and they need to do washing rituals and end up avoiding handling things and end up avoiding discarding for that reason. I have individuals with fears of something incriminating being on any paper material, and so they have to check it, or being worried about throwing out something valuable getting mixed in with the items they want to discard, so the checking rituals become prohibitory difficult. You know, somebody with obsessions around personal information and identity theft, who looks to all intensive purposes superficially like a hoarder because he accumulates everything that comes in the door, but it's really about his concern around identity theft and his having to check it meticulously to make sure he didn't somehow get a piece of mail mixed up with it or something that has his phone number or credit card number or any other information on it. So, I've seen a broad variety of cases like that, but I think usually when you explore the motivation for the difficulty around the discarding, I feel clinically myself that it's not all that difficult to tease apart.
Interviewer: Have you ever encountered a case of sub-clinical hoarding?
Interviewee: Many.
Interviewer: And what does that look like?
Interviewee: Um, people who will comment to me that they feel they have a bit of excessive accumulation, they may themselves note that they have a bit of difficulty discarding, it's hard for them to do it, they feel a sense of reluctance to part with things, but they'll tell me, you know, eventually they get to it or they've build up a safety network with a family member checking in with them ever 3 months, if they themselves have difficulty, to kind of help them work through it so that they say when we discuss the condition of their home, that their accumulation of material does not in any way impact on their ability to live the way they want to live in their home or use the space suitably, not in a significant way.
Interviewer: So, it's subclinical in that case, even though they have the impulse, they're able to kind of keep it in check and manage their space.
Interviewee: With difficulty often, yeah that would be the kind of, profile in my mind of a subclinical hoarder.Interviewer: Okay, so now I'd like to talk through the DSM-V criteria pretty briefly. Are there any aspects of the DSM-V criteria that you find particularly difficult to apply or that you have thought that different clinicians may apply differently? Either things to do with the language or related to clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Um, for the most part I feel like criteria works pretty well, actually. I've questioned, in the early days I was strongly influenced by [NAME] and [NAME], thinking about acquiring as a core feature and wondered if it shouldn't be up there as a diagnostic feature, but over the years I've seen so many who don't endorse it as an active part, that if it were a requirement for diagnosis, it would have to be an option, right, it would have to be not absolutely required. So, I think that's actually fair, that's been a change in my thinking over the years. I sometimes think the language around the urge to save things is just a little bit, maybe just a little bit awkward potentially, because I think when I meet with individuals, you know it just says difficulty discarding regardless of the actual--the need to save due to distress associated with discarding. I think that's part of it, but for many of them it's also the strong urge to keep things. And sometimes I will meet people who say, "It's not that I can't discard them, I just feel the need to keep everything cuz I might want it or need it." So, sometimes the way that the criteria is phrased sometimes seems like a slightly awkward fit to me for that reason.
Interviewer: Mhhm, so one of the criteria discussed kind of difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of actual value, and I'm wondering if you ever think of the value of items as part of your kind of process. Do you have to have value, does the objective value of the item play into it? So, could someone, for instance, hypothetically hoard extremely valuable items? There was a, for instance as an example, a case of an art collector who's house was completely filled and absolutely unorganized and unmanageable, but all of the objects were, you know, priceless art artifacts or paintings and sculptures. So is the value of the items a part of your use of that diagnostic criteria?
Interviewee: No, not really. No, I wouldn't say that if they were living in a disorganized state, identified having more stuff than space to keep it, and it was compromising their pleasure and ability to live normally in their home, even if it's all objectively value, but I would still see it as hoarding.Interviewer: So, one of the criteria that clinicians have talked about in different ways is the one that says that the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, and substantially compromises their intended use. So, I guess the question that this criteria begs for me is different people live in difference spaces, you know, if you are living in a trailer you have very little space and you require very few items to congest and compromise it, whereas if you are extremely wealthy and can afford six storage units and have a huge house, you may never reach the point where your living area is substantially compromised. And I'm wondering how you think about that when you go through the process of using this criteria?
Interviewee: I think it can be a conundrum and it can cloud and potentially lead to under diagnose of those who are in the wealthier economic strata. But, on the other hand, when I've met individuals like that who have the luxury of lots of space, they're typically also not distressed by the problem because they have enough space that they can still live very well in the space they have. And so, from the perspective of distress or impairment, they won't meet either. So, if I may I can give you one very straight forward example like that, who's an individual I've seen on and off for years for OCD who is from a very wealthy family. He lives alone in a 5 bedroom home, and has essentially a butler to assist him. He buys about 30 bespoke suits a year even though he doesn't have more than a few occasions a year to wear them, and he has accumulated all the old ones, not to mention other types of items of clothing, such that in his five bedroom home, he sleeps in one bedroom, has one room that's a guest room, and the other three are closet space.
Interviewer: Wow
Interviewee: Right? He is not distressed by it, he objectively recognizes that he accumulates too much, and he would say that he has trouble parting with the old ones and he sees that it's excessive, the acquiring of them, but it doesn't really distress him in any meaningful way, it doesn't impair him. He has the ability to function beautifully in his house and has people over all the time, his butler helps him keep his clothing collection organized, there's no hardship. From a neurobiological perspective, I think he's somebody who in a research study if our criteria didn't exclude him, would probably show the same neurobiological issues but don't think that clinically he's at threshold, because of his material wealth and ability to live comfortably.Interviewer: It is an interesting facet of hoarding disorder that someone can have the same neurobiology and have the same thoughts and even the same behaviors but, because of their kind of socioeconomic status, just not have a disorder. It's been difficult for me to think of another disorder like that, where you just won't be diagnosed with it. So, I don't know
Interviewee: Actually, well, I'm gonna just put out there, if you think about it for a moment, mild ADHD in people who have moved into creative professions, where they're required and praised for their ingenuity and innovativeness and creativity, I've seen a few individuals throughout the years who have told me that if they didn't have their inattentiveness, that they think it would be more difficult for them to come up with some of those ideas. You know, they're not quite the same, but there's a bit of that. I think people with bipolar disorder, where the manias are mostly cyclic mood disorders where they have hypomanias or have has few manias but long periods of hypomania, who would tell me they don't want to go on mood stabilizers because they work in a creative area, such as writing, and they worry it would impact their ability to come up with their ideas.
Interviewer: I mean, I guess that the--
Interviewee: A few examples of that, that I don't think are as clear cut as the hoarding one,
Interviewer: Sure, and I guess the other difficulty with hoarding disorder is that distress criteria. So, this person is not meeting distress criteria, because objectively speaking, his home is not compromised. But many hoarders don't endorse distress because they have such as low insight into their behavior. And so that's sort of the--
Interviewee: Right, and then I look at the behavior. I mean, that's where I think, because we have the impairment or inability to maintain safety for yourself or others, it's not perfect, and you're absolutely right, I hadn't given that enough thought when you asked about problems with the criteria, but typically in those situations we'll say there's some concern, they deny that it's a problem. I have a lady like that with OCD and hoarding, she's been evicted 5 times, she generally over the years has denied that her hoarding is a big problem it just angers others around her. But objectively, there would certainly be a fire hazard and a times, she'd have vermin, so, right? I think the criteria aren't bad as an effort to try and get at that and give us enough venue.Interviewer: Sure, and you know, this interview isn't an effort to discredit the criteria, it's just kind of an effort to think through them and to understand kind of how clinicians are applying them. It's interesting for that reason, and it's also interesting because you know different people can have different ideas on a normal spectrum of how much is too much. So, some people really like having clutter around, they feel better in a space that's more full of items than others, and we wouldn't think that that's strange, but it crosses a line with hoarding disorder in terms of safety and sometimes not with distress, sometimes with distress. So, I'm wondering again, like the beautiful example you gave of the man with his bespoke suits, would it be possible to have hoarding disorder with, for example, digital media? So, could somebody hoard emails and books online, and PDFs, and have just hard drives full of material and would that be a hoarder?
Interviewee: I've had trouble with that one. I mean, people ask about it, I've read about it myself, and I've had clients who do have problems with accumulating a lot of online material, far more than they could ever use, review, even access because it's not, they're not able to organize it appropriately anymore. But, I'm a little hard pressed, because if it were solely the digital media, I've not seen someone where it's solely digital accumulation without physical accumulation of other material. So, in those cases where I've seen the two coexisting, I would say that the electronic acquiring or accumulation is a feature of their hoarding difficulty. I guess I haven't been presented with a person who solely accumulates digitally and who would say their living circumstances physically are fine. I don't know what that would look like and how I would feel comfortable applying the diagnostic criteria, unless they were really distressed by their accumulation or reported spending too much time and effort, for example, on trying to catalog or organize it, I haven't read into that. But I think that if I heard somebody with that kind of description, where they've said, "I myself am distressed by my electronic accumulation, I spend too much time acquiring electronic materials, I can't organize them to find what I want and it's troubling me and getting in the way because I'm spending so much effort on it," that would probably be them somebody I might end up diagnosing as an OCRD not otherwise specified kind of situation. But I've never seen one like that, so I don't know if those really exist.
Interviewer: It's kind of along the lines of the collector example, where people may do that, but it's very rarely confined to one sphere like that.
Interviewee: Yeah.Interviewer: Another area that I've thought about is this substantially compromises intended use. So, in the example of the patient that you gave, he has five bedrooms and 3 of which are closets, which is not their intended use, and I guess, who, how do you decide where it crosses the line for intended use? I mean, someone may store stuff in a bathtub and say, "I don't take baths, I'll shower at the gym." Someone may store stuff on the stove and say, "Well I don't ever cook and I don't know how to cook, so it makes sense for me to use my stove as a storage space." I guess what I'm saying is, is there a line with that intended use aspect of the criteria, or is it all kind of about functional status and safety?
Interviewee: That's a really good one, Interviewer. I think it comes down mostly to the distress and functional status and safety. Because, like in the example of my patient, who says the bedroom is a sleeping place? I mean he has a very large home, it's about 4,000 square feet, so just because the builder defined it as bedrooms, doesn't to me mean that they're not useful for their intended use.
Interviewer: Mhhm, yeah that's kind of what I was getting at is you know, if it's your space, if that's your home,
Interviewee: It defines it accordingly, but and it--so your interesting one is what if it covers the stovetop but the person says, "I never cook, I never have cooked, I never wish to cook." So, I think if somebody told me that, they've never cooked, they've never fried, they don't own frying pans, they don't have any desire to learn to fry an egg or to put up boiling water on a stovetop, so for them it is not a concern or a problem in any way, shape or form, then I would be hard pressed to find hoarding or clutter that's excessive simply based on that stovetop example. However, it's rarely in isolation. It's going to impact multiple areas of the home, and I would suspect there would be other areas where it's much more clearcut. But, I think you're right, it will be colored by their insight and justification. So, the hoarders I see, when I ask where they sleep who say they sleep on their comfy chair but they prefer it to their bed, they think they sleep better upright, so they don't want to sleep in their bed anyway, where you're right, I'm opposing my own judgment. I'm saying I think that's getting in the way of its intended use.Interviewer: And that's a difficult distinction, I mean, there are clinicians and researchers who think of hoarding disorder as a way of kind of making the space more conformable, so who kind of conceive of it as people who like to be surrounded by items, who feel safer and more at home when they are kind of closed in a little bit, and so I guess what that kind of gets at is at what point are we saying that people's homes, that they can't kind of manage their own space in a way that feels good to them? And making that distinction I guess can be difficult unless it's a very clear kind of safety and health hazard.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. I don't have a clear answer, I guess. It does come down to like a [INAUDIBLE] judgment on my part sometimes about whether it's getting in the way of their ability to function and their intended use. You're right, there can be gray zones.
Interviewer: And, I guess, the next part of the interview, this leads into it quite nicely because the last part of the DSM-V that I'd like to discuss with you is about distress and then talking about insight. So, um, one really interesting thing that I've encountered in these interviews is the way that different clinicians think about this distress associated with discarding. So, some people kind of apply this criteria to mean they are distressed by their behavior, their behavior distresses them and they recognize that their life is impaired, and other people say "No, actually that's not required at all, that's not what's meant by distress, what's meant is that they would hypothetically experience distress if they were discarding. So there is no actual distress in the disorder itself, when they keep their items they're fine, but if you try to make them throw it away, that's when they would experience distress and that's what the criteria is getting at. So, I'm wondering how you apply that distress criteria?
Interviewee: I usually interpret it as, I totally agree with the second group, that there are hoarders who don't have distress except when they're forces to discard, and if they've been successfully avoiding it for enough time, it's not a problem. But then the way that I apply the criteria is that they don't meet distress, but I will look for impairment instead. The way I am looking for distress to use the diagnostic criteria is distress at the problem, distress at the way they're living, or distress of the way it's bringing them into conflict with others or the impact on their finances from their excessive acquiring. But, distressed at some aspect of the problem, which absolutely correctly you're pointing out will only be there if there is some degree of insight.
Interviewer: So, let's talk about insight, one thing that I ask clinicians is to tell me how they would define insight in the case of hoarding. What does insight mean?
Interviewee: I think insight typically here means the recognition of the excessive feature of their accumulated belongings. And the recognition that it is getting in the way of their being able to live the kind of ritual filling life they would otherwise like to lead.
Interviewer: So insight for you involves recognition that their behavior is impairing. So, distress is a key feature of insight for you.
Interviewee: Distress is more related to insight, yeah.Interviewer: So, could a person have insight and say, "Yeah I have hoarding disorder and this behavior is abnormal and its impairing my life, but it's my life and I want to keep my items" is that a patient with insight, or where would insight kind of fit into that for that patient? They recognize their disorder is real, but they don't want to change it. They don't feel distressed by it, could you have insight without distress?
Interviewee: Yes, I'd say if you recognize that they still have a problem in the way they relate to stuff, they're still insightful about one aspect of the problem, they may say it's poor insight, depending on how they described it and depending on what I was objectively hearing about their life.
Interviewer: And when you see patients, how much insight do they typically have when they come to you?
Interviewee: So the population I see typically ranges between fair to good insight, because I am a psychiatrist to which people are referred for treatment. I'm not out there in the community, I'm at a hospital setting, a tertiary care hospital setting. I mean I get the occasional one where they're coming just because their family members have pushed them, but they're a small minority of the people I see myself.
Interviewer: And so when you're seeing people who have reasonably good insight, do you have any idea how they gained insight on their own or what that process looked like for them?
Interviewee: I don't know that I do have a good feel for that, it typically comes on gradually but no I would say I don't have any specific understanding of what triggered them to begin to recognize that it was a problem.Interviewer: So, there was this paper published by Randy Frost where he talks about the concept of insight, and he in the paper broke it down into different constructs, and I'd like to read you these constructs and have you think with me through which in your mind are the most important or how you see them related to each other. So the constructs that randy came up with are defensiveness, anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive your illness, overvalued ideation, so that would be more of a persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items, or indifference. Um, and I'm wondering how you see these fitting together in people's insight. So, these are interesting to me because they are so varied. So, overvalued ideation or anosognosia even, sound almost more like a delusional disorder where you're looking at an item and you have an unreasonable belief that the item is more valuable than it is, or you're looking at your space and you think that your space looks normal, even though is objectively, you know no one with objectivity would see it as normal. Whereas defensiveness is much more based on behavior and indifference also is very behavioral and seems sort of like related to depression and just not caring about space. So, I guess what I'm getting at with this question is how do you think about these and do you see them all as equally relevant or do you feel like some are more central to insight as you understand it in hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: So, I have to confess I have not given this any thought before and I haven't seen that paper, so this is the first I'm hearing about this model for insight or the different aspects of insight, but I think it's really interesting and kind of a-- what was the first one again?
Interviewer: Defensiveness
Interviewee: I guess I'm just not quite sure about defensiveness fitting with the others.
Interviewer: Okay, how so?
Interviewee: Well I kind of, so the others are like core features of their... would define why they don't have insight. Whereas defensiveness is more of a reaction to some insight, and not wishing to acknowledge a problem. So in a way defensiveness almost implies some degree on insight.
Interviewer: Mhhm, in order to be defensive you have to know that there's something to defend.
Interviewee: Exactly, so don't know that I would agree with defensiveness being one of the constructs. But the other three sound really good and right on to me, actually, and very much map onto my experience.
Interviewer: So, do you see a degree of, I mean I don't want to overstate it, but something along the lines of a delusion with hoarding patients? Do you think that when they look at items they are literally delusional at times in terms of their beliefs?
Interviewee: I've seen, I have not, I know that it's described, I have not really seen people. I'm trying to think if I have seen people who I thought were clearly at the delusional rather than poor or almost absent insight. I don't think I've actually seen anybody where I've termed it delusional.Interviewer: So I guess what I'm imagining here is somebody who's space is just really, you know, over cluttered. Like the example you gave where there's rodents, they're being evicted, and they look at their space and they say, "This looks fine to me, this looks like a normal home" and I guess I'm wondering is is that because they're in denial about it? Or is that because they truly are looking at something and seeing something different than reality?
Interviewee: So I think there is this perceptual problem, the anosognosia, which could also be termed in a milder form as clutter blindness, right? And so I see that all the time in some of my people with hoarding where they really don't see it registering the same way others would and I find photos very useful in that regard, because sometimes they'll take photos and bring them in to show me, and when we look at the photos together they together will say, "That looks a lot worse than I realized, I see what you're seeing and I hadn't looked at it that way." That part of it really fits, and so many overvalued ideations I see all the time, but to call them truly delusional as a psychiatrist, I'm trying to think whether I've seen anybody.
Interviewer: I guess part of the reason I'm curious is because I've also been talking to people about animal hoarding, and people who talk about animal hoarding are very comfortable, or some of them are anyway,
Interviewee: I'm sorry, yes, yes let me take that back. One case I've seen, who was an animal hoarder who I thought was frankly delusional, you're right. But he didn't have any other feature of hoarding, he actually had severe OCD and some [INAUDIBLE] issues. But, I did believe he was delusional.
Interviewer: It's interesting, so I've been talking to people more and more because in some ways it seems so related to object hoarding, but in other ways it's quite quite different and I think that that's maybe the sense that I'm getting from talking to experts is that they're very hesitant to say that hoarders are truly delusional, but with animal hoarding it appears to be more of a real problem perceiving the reality of the situation. How do you think about the relationship between those two disorders yourself?
Interviewee: So, I haven't been presented with a significant number of cases of serious animal hoarding, maybe less than in the fingers of one hand, and I don't know whether that's just related to the setting in which I work and the type of patients that get referred to me.Interviewer: I think it's because animal hoarding is even worse than object hoarding in terms of people ever seeking treatment or staying in treatment.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, so I just haven't had them, so it's a really really interesting question. Um, but that one case who comes clearly to my mind was somebody where I realized after time that only when frankly, anyway there's a number of complications in his case that make it even more interesting and complicated, but I ended up coming to the decision that he had, I called him a delusional disorder and it was with regard to the animals because he describes himself as safe keeping them and taking care of these animals that would otherwise be destroyed eventually, and when I next had contact was after there had been a home inspection and housing authorities and SPCA etcetera had gotten involved, and they reported animals in his home that had died and in deplorable conditions. And even so, when I met him he maintained in a way that I found seemed totally believable and frankly delusional that he was taking good care of them.
Interviewer: Yeah, that seems to be a pretty common experience with animal hoarders and I've gotten really curious about the relationship between the two disorders because behaviorally, and kind of conceptually, it makes sense that they would be related and both related to OCD, but there seems to be something about animal hoarding that crosses lines that object hoarding just doesn't seem to cross. And, this wasn't, I don't think this was actually on your list but sometimes clinicians will talk about their patients with hoarding disorder who kind of over-identify with objects or over-empathize with objects of have some emotional connections with objects
Interviewee: Oh yeah, absolutely I've seen that one, I missed it. An individual of mine who sees objects as having feelings and the ways she treats it is core to the difficulty discarding, because if you treat anything with disrespect and make it feel like its unwanted would be hurting it, yeah.
Interviewer: And I'm wondering almost if animal hoarding is maybe an extension of that aspect of object hoarding, where animals are, they kind of over-empathize with them are they are so concerned about harm to them that they, I don't know I'm still working on it, that might be a future direction but I wanted to get your ideas. I have a couple of closing questions, so I don't want to keep you longer than you have though, so if you need to go just let me know.
Interviewee: I have 5 minutes, okay, but then I do have to wrap up.
Interviewer: Yeah, absolutely. So, this is a hard one, but we talked about the reasons that people give for their hoarding behavior, and I'm wondering if you think that these are the real reasons that they're saving, the reasons that they give, or are these reasons post-hoc justifications for an underlying biological need, which they will do and then they'll kind of retrospectively justify them cognitively?
Interviewee: I don't know how you would test that model.
Interviewer: Yeah, I guess it's just a speculative question it's not a testable one.
Interviewee: I'm trying to see offhand a way that you would do a study which would enable you to discriminate that. If I say then give that as the reason, and they seem to believe that, even if it's post hoc, how are we going to distinguish that?Interviewer: Sure, so maybe it's not even a meaningful distinction for that reason.
Interviewee: Not that I see it right now. Now it might be once we developed, if we could develop and identify a good biomarker of hoarding disorder, then you could begin to test that, right?
Interviewer: Yeah, the analogy that I was thinking of is like a compulsive disorder or like an impulse control problem, where you do something and you can't help but do it and then afterwards you think of a reason why you did it. And if hoarding is like that, if hoarding is a behavioral driven and then kind of afterwards cognitively driven or cognitively justified, but you're right that would be very difficult to test.
Interviewee: I don't think it's testable currently. I'd be really interested if somebody found a way to do it.
Interviewer: As a final question, I'm wondering if you have any idea from your patients and conversations with them how long their behavior's been going on and how it developed over the course of their life. Do they describe it as starting at a certain point? And I guess the reason I'm asking this is hoarding is, as you I'm sure know, if more prevalent in elderly people and I've wondered is that because of the social factors? Is that because those people tend to be more isolated and perhaps living alone and they've had the impulse or the behavior their whole life and it only reaches clinical levels as they get older and less able to deal with it? Do you have any idea about that from your patients?
Interviewee: Yeah, so one thing I often talk about with my patients is differentiating between the difficulty they have in the way they relate to stuff, and the legacy in the years of accumulation, and I think there's inadequate weight given to that distinction. So that, for example, I will see many people who go through a course of CBT or an [INAUDIBLE] treasures protocol who at the end of it are relating to things differently, are more able to discard, are no longes excessively acquiring, are beginning to impose more of an organizational structure, and they're doing really well in terms of losing what comes in the door. And so if we look at them on the savings inventory or the hoarding rating scale, they would be clearly improved significantly. But, that doesn't mean that they don't still live in a home filled with dramatic clutter, because the legacy of years of accumulation is an overwhelming problem. Sorry I'm trying to think now what your question was.Interviewer: Yeah, about the life course kind of of hoarding disorder and how it is impacted by age.
Interviewee: Yeah, so the reason I was mentioning that, which I think is a real problem in the way we often understand hoarding and I think it's a real problem with patients who understand hoarding that leads them to minimize the gains in treatment or to see them as relatively lacking in value because that legacy is still there, is that often the insight only seems to develop as a result of those years of the legacy of the accumulation. So, many people I see will say when they look back absolutely as it's been reported in other studies, you know they identified difficulty with discarding going back to their early adult years or teens or sometimes even late childhood, but the accumulation took time to get out of control and quite often I find hoarders that I see who are usually in their 40s to 60s, although I've seen some younger ones, will often say it got out of control because of environmental changes. Their spouse left them of their relationship ended or their children moved out or their aging parents downsized or died. And as a result they've been presented with even more stuff and it totally overwhelmed their ability and their limited ability to cope with it and to deal. At that point, they now recognize the problem. So, I think there's a bit of an artificiality in our saying it's more prevalent among the elderly, which is simply related to the objective reality, which is that it takes years for the accumulation in many cases to really reach that threshold of intolerance or impairment that's recognized by the individual.
Interviewer: That makes total sense. Well I really appreciate your time, I don't want to keep you any longer.