Interviewer: Okay, perfect. Okay so now we're going to get into the more conversational part of our interview, and for this I'd like you to just begin by giving me a little bit of background about you in terms of how you encounter individuals with this disorder.
Interviewee: Um, well I do research and I have two lines of research having to do with hoarding, one with community-based interventions for hoarding and there I don't actually talk to people who have hoarding themselves, I'm talking with some of the service providers, like a fire department guy or a street nurse or something like that, and they talk about patients. And we also collect data, so there's data about the cases, but it's quite impoverished because there's no person attached to it. The other line of my research has to do with psychological functioning in hoarding, and there we actually have people who identify as having problems with hoarding come into our research lab and we give them a diagnostic interview and a bunch of testing. I directly listen to the diagnostic interviews, so I hear--I don't conduct them but I supervise them, so I hear quite a lot of stories from these recordings. And finally I supervise a [INAUDIBLE] doing group [INAUDIBLE] for hoarding. And so we usually have less than 6 clients per year and two students, probably like 2 more that don't work out for the group, and I watch all of those sessions, but I also attend home visits. I get to know the clients personally, that way [INAUDIBLE]. I also have treated hoarding individually, but I just don't have time to do that all of the time.
Interviewer: And what degrees do you hold?
Interviewee: I have a PhD in Psychology, clinical.
Interviewer: Okay, now we're gonna talk through the process of diagnosing hoarding disorder and we're gonna specifically talk about some of the DSM-IV criteria. So, just to kind of begin, what for you are the main and most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting or even extreme collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: For me the major difference is that in normal saving, or even collecting, the person's decisions about what to acquire or save are responsive to the amount of space they have available.
Interviewer: Interesting.
Interviewee: So some people have a lot of space and some people don't have that much space, but people make choices in relation to that space and I think people who hoard are not making those choices.Interviewer: That's a really interesting answer to that question, I think that's the first time I've ever heard that answer in exactly that way. How do you judge that, I guess, in the context of different people kind of just having different amounts of space? So, somebody might live in a ver small apartment and have less space, and therefore just need fewer items to reach that threshold?
Interviewee: Exactly, that's right. It's part of our research, we make our diagnosis informed in part by photographs that the participants bring in of their home. So we have healthy control participants, we have sub-clinical hoarding and hoarding, so I see inside a lot of homes that way. And so I've seen quite a lot of small apartments, and people who are not hoarding, they just have fewer things in the smaller apartment. Kind of like a person living in a big home and lots of storage space has a lot of stuff in that storage space, and a person who lives in an apartment without much storage space at all would make different choices and have fewer items.
Interviewer: I guess you could take that example kind of to the extreme though, and you could say imagine a person who has an enormous house and maybe an ability to buy multiple storage units and is just never going to run out of space, just financially is never going to reach that threshold, will that person ever have hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well, that's the thing. I think that even a person who has a large amount of space, if you're not responsive to the amount of space you've got....so, let's say they have what you might call an insatiable desire to acquire, even a large home can be filled up.
Interviewer: Mhhm, so a person with hoarding disorder is always going to fill all of the space, even if they have a lot of space.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think they will. Especially--the other thing I think that happens is that, I don't know this for sure but I think that the creep of possession occurs so gradually, that the person doesn't notice that their living space is getting smaller and smaller.
Interviewer: Okay, so it's not a sudden influx of items, it's a slow acquisition.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Every once in a while I'll hear about somebody who inherited stuff, you know. We had to clean out mom's house and I didn't know what to do with it so everything's here. Every once in a while I hear something like that, but often I think that it's that they're just not noticing until there's some kind of tipping point. That the space to maneuver has gotten littler and littler and the amount of space they have to sit on the sofa has gotten smaller and smaller.Interviewer: Can you think of a case or cases that you thought was really challenging to diagnose or challenging to determine if the person truly had hoarding disorder or not and could you describe an instance like that for me?
Interviewee: Yeah, I can tell you about a case from last week. So this was a young woman, maybe in her 30s, she had moved into her apartment maybe only 8 months earlier, so she hadn't lived there very long. It's a very small apartment, her kitchen and living room were kind of all together like in one area, and her bedroom was a separate room, and the photos of the kitchen itself, like the place where you would prepare food and store things did not look hoarded at all. It looked extremely functional in the kitchen, but once you stepped away from the counters, there were piles of things that were more disorganized, but she described the things as not being hers or being temporarily there. Like for example, there were some closet doors that she said belonged to the landlord. And I have a hard time knowing when somebody says that, that this object is temporarily there it just belongs to someone else, I have a hard time knowing how to evaluate that in the context of hoarding because people tell themselves stories about objects in their homes. About, oh yes this belongs to someone else, and they kind of...the fact that is has sat there for a while and it's actually going to sit there for the next five years is not part of the story that they tell themselves. So, I don't quite know how to evaluate it. The most problematic room was her bedroom, however, where the mattress was on the floor and there was no visible floor space in the entire length of the room and she described this situation as being due to the fact that in the previous apartment, her bed had been a loft and she hadn't yet been able to get a bed up on a loft because it takes 3 people to handle the loft. And that under the bed, once the loft was there, would be perfect storage space for all this stuff that was in her bedroom. The things in her bedroom included bikes and quite a large pile of pillows that was not actually on her bed, and the photos made it clear that she actually sleeps on a tiny part of the bed because the rest of the bed is covered with stuff. And so it, partly because the photo was of a bed on the floor, so like if your bed is up, like my bed is a couple feet above the floor, that means that if my possessions were at the height of the bed, that would be two and a half feet of debris. But her bed was on the floor, so it made it look a little fuller than it was. But it's still true that you couldn't walk in it, and she said she couldn't walk over to the other side of the bedroom, so I have a really hard time trying to sort out, especially because different areas of the home had different functional abilities. Like the bedroom looked pretty not functional, the kitchen looked perfectly functional. So yeah, that was a hard one for me.Interviewer: It seems like there were a bunch of different components. So part of it was that the apartment, some part seemed usable and some parts seemed less usable and it was difficult to evaluate how long the situation was gonna stay like that. So maybe that would've been acceptable if her apartment was gonna stay in that condition for a little while, but if that was a permanent state it might be evaluated differently. And then also because her bed wasn't typically arranged the way a typical bed would, it sounds like it also made it more difficult to evaluate like how much there really was in these photographs. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: I think that's right, that's right. And also because we weren't physically in the room, we couldn't...it didn't look like there was a lot in the closets, but I've also seen that in hoarded homes. Like where everything is in the middle of the room and the closets are empty. And so yeah I had a really hard time sorting that. Oh and she also said that--she described a hallway in which there was a washer, a dryer, and a desk and we didn't have photos of this part, but she said her landlord had come by to let her boyfriend into the apartment and he'd seen the hallway and he'd said to her, "This needs to be cleaned up." Like apparently it was really overflowing with laundry and things like that and so that made me think oh there's pressure, like obviously that hallway looks quite full. But then she said that the landlord had told her, "you know, whenever you'd like me to come back, whenever you feel ready for me to come back and have a look that it's cleaned up you just let me know." So that means that he didn't think it was urgent, like really freak out, but clearly he thought something was not right in there.
Interviewer: So that was kind of your way of imagining what somebody who was outside this home would think of the home, and from that you typed up that it was unusual but maybe not truly alarming.
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly, yeah.
Interviewer: And so how did you end up making the decision? What decision did you end up coming to?
Interviewee: We ended up, or I ended up deciding that she didn't meet criteria for hoarding because I felt like her home was too functional, but I also didn't put her in the healthy control group because she had too much hoarding for me to feel like she was clearly in either group. So we have a category that we call sub-clinical, where we see if the person's endorsing all the right mental state around their objects. There's just not quite enough impairment, so I put her in that category.Interviewer: Do you see very many people who fall in that category of sub-clinical?
Interviewee: You know, we would see more but we try to screen them out and we use photographs in our telephone screening. I think what gets in the way is the questions that you would ask to evaluate whether someone has difficulties discarding things that other people might part with. That kind of question for a person who doesn't know anything about hoarding, they may say yes if they have just a strong attachment to things or if they've always been the kind of person who's a bit messy or if maybe they have a family member who's a minimalist, so they have some kind of conflict about it. But they're not actually anywhere close to hoarding, they'll say yes to all of those mental state questions.
Interviewer: Because they don't really have a context for what an abnormal response would look like.
Interviewee: Exactly, exactly. And then when we look at the photos of their home we go, "Oh, right." You know like had one woman who said, "Oh gosh, my bedroom is barely functional, you know sometimes I walk across the room and I trip on my shoes." And we looked at her bedroom and actually yeah there was a pair of shoes on the floor, but that doesn't mean hoarding. It's just a bit of a messy person.
Interviewer: Mhm, I can totally understand that too, having...you know, it's interesting to do these interviews because when you don't--when I started out doing them I didn't know anything really about hoarding disorder and reading the diagnostic criteria I was like, "Well this is so vague," but when you talk to experts they're like, "it's honestly really not difficult to tell." You know like it's not vague at all, but it's interesting too because it does seem to be a little bit of a gestalt, almost like a you just know it when you see it kind of a thing, rather than there being a clear yes or no boundary.
Interviewee: It is hard to describe, I would say it's like the concept of a [INAUDIBLE] set, there are hoarded homes that are clearly hoarded, they pretty much all look alike. But there are a lot of cases that kind of fall in the middle that are difficult, and it might be because there's somebody else in the home who is keeping a lid on things.Interviewer: I mean, it's unusual as a disorder--and we're gonna talk about this in just a minute, so maybe I'll hold off on that comment. Before I ask you that, do you find that it's difficult to make the distinction between hoarding disorder and other mental health disorders that might result in accumulating items? So depression, you know being too depressed to really clean up after yourself or being obsessive compulsive and having fears related to throwing things away. Do you find that that's a difficult distinction to make?
Interviewee: I would say it's not a difficult distinction in my research or in our treatment program, I don't find that to be difficult at all. But I do think it could be difficult in the community setting, because the community let's say is having providers or something like that, they're not really making diagnosis and I'll bear with them in oh there's unsafe conditions here, and being able to figure out what's the appropriate intervention, it differs if it's unsafe because the person is so depressed they can't clean up after themselves. Or if it's unsafe because the person is trying to run bicycle track shop to feed their drug addiction. You know, it's different intervention. Like I think sometimes those are harder, probably wouldn't be very hard if it was a clinician making the judgement, but they're not. They're people from different backgrounds and training and it is hard for them.
Interviewer: And it's not difficult for you as a clinician because you find it very easy to kind of talk to a person for a little while and figure out on the basis of their motivation for saving, why they're--which disorder they have?
Interviewee: Yeah, and also what they're saving.
Interviewer: How so?
Interviewee: You know because it--well, I come across people who are very poor and they're saving things to sell and they're not saving the same kinds of things. And actually they actually do sell them, unlike someone with hoarding who might say, "oh I intend to sell them" but nothing ever proceeds. And also I think the presence of, so in cases where I've seen where I thought this is really depression, it isn't hoarding, the accumulation of things really looked much more like garbage. You know like old ice cream containers and other items where the person has clearly been sitting in front of the television just having a [INAUDIBLE] and just setting the container down and you could see that that had happened for many days in a row. So it doesn't look like intentionally saved containers, like somebody might wash out their containers and might have 150 of them. But they're not just discarded with the food still in them right by the bed.
Interviewer: So you can kind of see that the person hasn't necessarily decided to save them, they've just fallen where they fall.
Interviewee: Exactly.
Interviewer: Now we're gonna talk a little bit more through the diagnostic criteria for hoarding disorder, and before I start to ask specific questions about those criteria, do you have any thoughts as to part of the criteria that you have found difficult to apply or that you have thought different clinicians might apply differently or that rely on clinical judgement?
Interviewee: I think one of the challenges I have in training graduate students to diagnose hoarding, one of the difficulties I have is that they sometimes get so distracted by the psychological aspects of the diagnostic criteria, that they forget there's got to be a hoard.Interviewer: Okay, can you explain what you mean?
Interviewee: I mean the person can say, "Oh yes I have great difficulty discarding, yes I acquire a lot" and on why they intend to save these things, "Oh getting rid of them would be very upsetting to me" but if there is no hoard, if there is no accumulation of possessions but if it's severe enough that we want to apply the word "disorder" to it, then we don't have a diagnosis. When you ask people about their impairment, if they don't have hoarding but they have too much stuff they will endorse impairment. It just dines't meet my threshold for impairment. Like if you have to spend 5 minutes cleaning off your dining table before you can sit down and eat, that doesn't count as hoarding to me.
Interviewer: Well so that's kind of the cracks of the issue for me, is that I at least am very hard pressed to think of another disorder that requires external objects to be said to exist. You know like, it's been like a mystery for me in doing these interviews like how do you diagnose something that essentially you have to say exists in the person's mind, but you can only diagnose it if they have totally external items in sufficient quantities. You know like you would never diagnose like diabetes or hypertension or something based on how much ice cream or sugar that person has got their hands on, and if--
Interviewee: No, but I don't thin that's the right way to think about it. I think that by looking at the person's home, it like gives you a measurement. So it's more like getting a person suspected of an eating disorder to stand on a scale. And if they're not underweight, it doesn't matter how much they say yes they're afraid of getting fat and they restrict their eating. If they're not underweight, they're not anorexic.
Interviewer: I think that that's an interesting analogy. The other strange part about hoarding disorder that we'll talk about a little bit more, at least for me, is the criteria of distress because often people with hoarding disorder will not endorse distress. They'll say, "I'm totally happy with the situation as it is" and they might even deny that they would be distressed if they had to throw items away. But even then it would be hypothetical distress, but they might even deny that. Whereas as you mentioned, sometimes people who don't meet criteria for hoarding disorder will say they're distressed but the clinician has to say that's not true distress somehow. So you have again the situation where one person is saying, "I'm not distressed" and we're saying, "Oh yes you are." You know what I mean? Like I wonder how you asses distress in the context of hoarding.
Interviewee: Well isn't the criteria distress or impairment?Interviewer: Yes.
Interviewee: Because for people who hoard, I see that as being similar to anorexia, bulimia, alcohol use disorder. There are a few disorders like that where the person might not be distressed, but an outside person can see there's obvious impairment here. It might be true even for attention problems, like attention deficit problems, so for the person who actually has hoarding disorder and they're saying, "I'm not distressed", that to me, because the criteria really is distress or impairment, and you can see these other disorders where they're egosyntonic, really. I don't have trouble with that one, I do have trouble with the other thing you mentioned, which is...so wait a minute, you're saying you're distressed and I'm saying not. I think that, I guess for me though...like the eating disorders, where you have to have all of the criteria or you don't get the diagnosis, in hoarding you have to have all of the criteria. And so if the person says "I'm distressed," I almost say, "well you're not distressed enough if I don't see a hoard."
Interviewer: So there's also this question in the diagnostic criteria, one of the criteria anyway reads, "persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value." And I'm wondering, is it a requirement that some of the possessions in the hoard to be a hoard are not objectively valuable or that there's a determination of inappropriate valuation at some point. So either they're objectively worthless and the person thinks they're worth money, or there's things that the person is sentimentally attached to that it just doesn't kind of make sense to be so sentimentally attached to those particular items? I guess the reason that I'm asking this is that I read this really interesting article this morning about a couple who their home appeared to be totally hoarded out, they couldn't have people over, it was totally filled to the brim, but then they were found to actually be in the possession of a very valuable art collection, which they donated and was valued at millions of dollars. I mean it made their apartment totally non-functional for a decade, but when somebody actually went through the items, they found that they were excessively, they were actually really valuable works of art. And yes they were impairing the couple's use of the home, but it was appropriate for them to be saved because they were so valuable. Would that count as hoarding disorder? Is there an element of either lack of value in the objects or indiscriminateness in the saving? Does that make sense?
Interviewee: Yeah, so the way I...I agree that that wording could be improved for sure. But when I see that criteria in driving that is this idea that nobody would just throw away their possessions indiscriminately, yet we would all get rid of some items. You know, the chopsticks that came with my sushi last night, I'm not gonna keep them because I have too many chopsticks already. And I think that the regardless of their, I forget how you said it was worded.Interviewer: Actual value, yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah, regardless of their actual value, I think that they attempt to try to say things that other people would get rid of. But when you use that language to ask inner beauty, many of them would say, "I don't know what other people look at."S So that's not good language, you can't use that one. But that's the way I see it, is in effort to say do you keep stuff that other people would get rid of? And I see that as thinking and being responsive to your space. Like do you keep stuff that other people would say, "I'd rather have this space than this object in my life." And in terms of the paintings, how I would view that would depend on what else is in the home. Like if the paintings were the only thing in the home that was making someone think, "Oh, this is hoarding" then I might think it doesn't sound like hoarding to me.
Interviewer: And is that because the person was only saving one sort of thing?
Interviewee: Well that would make it certainly atypical for hoarding for sure. But also it would make it look more like a collection to me than hoarding.
Interviewer: Okay, and just to kind of get myself clear, can you have a collection that takes up so much room in your house that you can't use the house? I mean, or could you hoard, I guess I'm still struggling with that distinction. Like if I had a toothpaste cap collection, and it filled my entire bathroom so I couldn't even wash my hands, how would I know if I had a collection or a hoard?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that's a really good thing to be confused about. It's also one of those things where there's this unspoken kind of social norms at play. Toothpaste caps are not commonly accepted as a collectible, art is. Even weird little things like things that have ducks on them, are recognized. It might not be something that I would want to collect, but people collect them. And hoarding involves a collection of things that don't, like I could see a guy who collected these age-old vitamin bottles because...I mean they were empty, he had eaten the vitamins out of them, but they don't make them the same way anymore. They've changed the style of bottle for this vitamin, so he saw that as a collection but I didn't see that as a collection. And [INAUDIBLE] why not, that's where I kind of in depth thinking well because society doesn't say it's a collection.
Interviewer: It's not a collectible.
Interviewee: Yeah, a collectible or something that someone would say, "Oh an expression of my personality is in this collection, you know because I love ducks." Or this is an investment of mine, I've become an expert on this thing, I'm now an art expert and I now have a good eye for this particular kind of thing. And those sort of statements you can't really apply to toothpaste caps or vitamin bottles.
Interviewer: So you couldn't be a vitamin bottle connoisseur.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah and it would be different if he had a collection of different kinds of vitamin bottles, you know like different kind of bottles like you might see in an antique shop. But this was all one kind of vitamin bottle.Interviewer: And how do you make that determination about value when somebody is saying to you something about the sentimental value of an item? How do you determine if it's an appropriate or inappropriate sentimental valuation? So you know, somebody saying I can't throw away this box of baby clothes because my daughter wore them when she was a baby. Is that a matter of sort of extent?
Interviewee: For me, that's why I come back to being responsive to the space available. So a person who is living in a big house where they raised their children, it's not uncommon for people to have an area of the basement that has their kid's possessions, they might want it someday. But if it's interfering with their living space, most people...very few people keep every single thing their baby ever touched. There's some decisions along the way of stuff you gotta get rid of, and so where you draw the line seems to me to be around the space you have available.
Interviewer: One of the other criteria reads, "the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter living areas and substantially compromises their intended use." And I'm thinking about, for example the example that you gave earlier of the woman who had her countertops totally clear and thus was not compromising the intended use of her kitchen, but what if I gave you a counter example where her clutter extended to the countertops but she said, "I don't know how to cook and I don't have any cooking supplies, and so this is how I want to use my kitchen counters because I'll never use them for cooking." How do you determine that kind of intended use? I mean you could again extend that example outward and say, "I don't have any guests, so why do I need a guest room? I only shower so I don't need a bathtub." You know, you could extend out to the point of absurdity, but how do you draw the line on a patient by patient basis?
Interviewee: Right, yeah so I think that's a really good question you're making and it sounds like you're implicitly noting that people will make accommodations in their lives and then use the fact that they've made an accommodation to the symptom as a kind of a rationalization. Like this isn't really that big of a problem because I don't paint it big. And I would say that if I see one example of something like that in the home, where the person is saying, "well I don't really cook so it doesn't matter that my stove is covered in stuff" if that was all I saw was just the one example, I might go, "Okay,"but usually we see many more examples. That's what I would be looking for and I think that's one of the things that troubles me about that case that I gave you, is that I only really see the bedroom being impairment, and so that troubles me.Interviewer: Because you would look for multiple ways that the space was being compromised by the items and just one might not be enough but you'd want to look and see is the amount of stuff really impairing the person's use of their home beyond this single example, and is it extended to multiple examples.
Interviewee: That's right, and also I would be looking to satisfy myself if, are they telling me a story about who they are as a person and that's real and that would be true even if they didn't have stuff, or are they telling me a story of how they've accommodated to their symptoms?
Interviewer: I guess that you could ask that same question in kind of a larger way about this disorder. I mean, do you feel that when somebody tells you, "I'm saving this item because I might use it someday or I'm afraid to waste it," do you feel like they're justifying the fact that they have already decided to save it? Like is the symptom "I have to save things" and then they come up with reasons sort of post-hoc to justify that behavior? Or do you feel like it's the reasoning that's driving the saving behavior? Does that make sense as a question?
Interviewee: That's a good question, I don't know the answer to that...I really don't.
Interviewer: It's something that I wonder a lot about with hoarding symptoms because the answers--the reasons that people give for why they're saving are so uniform, it really makes me wonder are these just the reasons that we as a society have decided it's appropriate to save, so when somebody is compulsively saving are they just reciting the reasons that that might be okay, or are their reasons more psychological and more cognitive and more driving? You know is it more similar to an obsessive-compulsive disorder where they're really worried about memory and poverty and things they might need?
Interviewee: Yeah, I can think of it around kind of being a good person, and a good person is prepared for emergencies and a good person is true to their artistic selves and a good person doesn't waste things. And whichever one of those reason for saving kind of talks to their sense of "I'm a good person." I'm hesitant to totally disregard that as a rationalization of the behavior, but it certainly looks like that and smells like that at times but I just don't really know.
Interviewer: I want to be respectful of your time, this has been really a wonderful conversation and I do have more questions for you but I know that I'm taking up more time than I asked for, so if you have to go please just let me know and I'll wrap up, okay?
Interviewee: Okay.Interviewer: Kind of to follow that up, different individuals--so one of the reasons I found your initial response to my question about how you can tell hoarding disorder to be so interesting, is that different people might like to have different amounts of stuff around them. So, I might like to have a totally clear desk, whereas my sister might really prefer a desk that's cluttered and she might say something like, "well I think better when there are more items around me." And I wonder if you ever think of hoarding disorder as being an extension of that sort of concept, or maybe less about the individual items and more about the relationship between a person and objects in space. So, I like to be more enclosed, or they like to have a busier...I think the word they used is chaotic, you know they like to have things that they can look at and see everywhere around them; rather than somebody who prefers simplicity in their space.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think there's something to that. I don't know, however, how much of that is familiarity because hoarding is not an episodic problem and it didn't develop yesterday in the person. So, that's kind of in part what I was also meaning about the slow creep of the hoard, but their home has come to look and feel in a certain way. We have a hoarded room in my lab, and it really does look like a hoarded room, and there's a different smell about that room. There's no squalor in the room but there's kind of that dusty cardboard sort of smell and if that's the smell that you've come to associate with the home, then that would be a comforting smell. And there's also a different acoustic in that room than in the room next door, which is perfectly empty. And if that's the acoustic that you've come to associate with home, then that's gonna be appealing to you and having a lot less stuff in it is going to feel weird.
Interviewer: So it's hard to tell whether it's just that you're accustomed to your space being that way, versus if that's really what you're trying to accomplish by making our space that way.
Interviewee: Yeah, and I think that's part of what's relevant about having hoarding in your family, that if you grew up in a hoarded home then you've always had this kind of aesthetic around the home in terms of what the walls look like and what it sounds like and what is smells like.
Interviewer: Mhhm, kind of speaking to the point that you've made about the creep of the hoard, a lot of the literature around hoarding suggests that patients with this disorder are older, although that might not be where it always starts. Do you have a sense with your patients how long it's been going on when they come to see you?
Interviewee: Decades.Interviewer: And I guess my question is, do you view hoarding as a disorder that is progressive in a sense of getting worse with age, like the behavior intensifies as a person ages? Or do you think that the reason older people tend to have it is more related to them needing time to have accumulated that much stuff? You know, them being maybe in a social place in their lives where older people are going to be more isolated, their children have left, you know maybe left their stuff at home, they're more likely to be in a stable living space for a longer period of time rather than moving to new apartments every couple of years. Or even it's just getting picked up at that stage because they are less mobile. I guess what I'm asking is do you think it's progressive? Do you think it worsens with age, maybe do to cognitive issues or do you think that it's mostly a side effect? That it happens to be seen mostly with older people for more kind of lifestyle or social reasons?
Interviewee: I think it's both. I think that all of the reasons that you listed about why it might be more evident in older people, all of those ring true and I would say maybe up until early older adulthood that would be the primary driver. Maybe add to that list deceased parents, so now you have the extra stuff that you don't know what to do with, and then I think that there probably is a progressive, even if there's not like cognitive decline, there's physical decline. And so, you get a new printer, what do you do with the old one? Well it's harder to do stuff like that when you're 75 than if you're 35.
Interviewer: Just cognitively harder?
Interviewee: I think cognitively and physically. Like the whole package of aging is harder to--
Interviewer: Harder to get anything done.
Interviewee: Exactly, exactly. So you have the house painted and then there's all these cans of empty paint, what do you do with them? I would say, like maybe--okay, so here's a hypothesis. Maybe in older adults, if this were true you would expect to see that the more recently acquired items in the home were actually passively saved rather than intentionally saved.
Interviewer: That's interesting, I would like to know the answer to that. That's a good way of figuring that out. Like maybe they've been more intentional and then at a certain point they've just stopped discarding because it's harder and that would be a way you could figure that out.
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly. Yeah because people do stop acquiring in some point in life, like you get everything you need so you're not acquiring these things intentionally like just to add to, like "oh geez I could use a [INAUDIBLE] or whatever".
Interviewer: So you think that maybe the intentional acquiring like shopping acquiring stops at a certain point or slows down and then it becomes more passive.
Interviewee: Yeah I think it probably slows, yeah. You'll still need a new printer every once in a while, but you wouldn't necessarily upgrade.Interviewer: That makes sense. The last little kind of topic that I'd like to touch on before I let you go, and again I really appreciate your time this has been a wonderful conversation, is about insight. So a lot of the literature describes people with hoarding disorder having particularly low insight, and I'd first just like to ask how you would define insight in the context of hoarding disorder? Like what does it mean to have insight?
Interviewee: So I would say insight is an ability to make an assessment of the conditions in the home and the consequences of the hoarding behavior that reasonably well mirrors what another person's assessment would be. And I've heard a description of home in general as the place where you can only see it through a stranger's eyes for a sheer second. So all of us have poor insight of our homes. I don't know if you've had the occasion, like if you come back from vacation, you've been away from home for a while, and then there's this one little moment where you see your home as an outsider would and then boom it's gone, and it's just home.
Interviewer: I definitely had that experience, yup. Like, "oops I have to clean."
Interviewee: Mhmm, I have to clean or even if you left it perfectly clean, just the slight difference like, "Oh this is an inviting space" or "Oh wow that's really irritating" or whatever it is, but you experience it not in your habitual home way but as an independent observer would look at it.
Interviewer: So, insight for you with hoarding disorder is the ability to have that moment to look at your space and see it as somebody who is not accustomed to it would see it.
Interviewee: Yeah, maybe not quite that broad because I think that's a very rare moment. I can tell you the ways in which my garage is functional and not functional and you would probably agree with me if you looked at my garage. And it's that kind of concurrence of ability to evaluate it, not even just the affective response of what it feels like to be in the space, but how useful is this space? How clean is it?
Interviewer: So, insight is the ability for someone to be able to tell you that in a way that some objective observer would agree with.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, you have kind of a shared perception of what's going on there.
Interviewer: Does it involve kind of the desire to change it? So if I'm a person who's home is completely hoarded out and I say, "Yeah I recognize that somebody else might really hate this space and it's gross, but I don't want to change it. I like it the way it is and I'm gonna live in it this way and I'm happy with it." Am I a person with low insight or with high insight?
Interviewee: I would say that's independent, because I've certainly talked to people who like maybe they make just enough change in treatment to satisfy whoever was threatening them, and they don't want to go any further because actually they are not bothered by it. They can see it, but it's fine with them. They'd rather live with it than make changes.Interviewer: So insight isn't related necessarily to the desire for treatment or the desire to change their behavior, insight is simply the ability to know that their behavior departs from the norm. And then separate form that is the desire to fix the behavior or to make their home different, to discard, all that is not insight, it's more like willingness for treatment.
Interviewee: Yeah, I would agree with all of that except for the parting with the norm, in that my partner, for example, will often stay up very late working, and she knows it's bad for her. She knows that if she's been working on the computer she's not going to sleep well that night, she knows that her work is slower at 2 in the morning, but she persists in doing it. So she doesn't actually have a desire to change, but she has excellent insight about the consequences of this behavior. So I wouldn't say deviations from the norm, so much as I would say they can realistically evaluate the consequences.
Interviewer; So it's not that the behavior's unusual so much as recognizing that the behavior is impairing.
Interviewee: Yeah, it has some consequence or what it is. Like she didn't say, "Oh I never go to bed after midnight" when in fact she goes to bed at 2. She would say, "I go to bed at 2." And that's what I call insight.
Interviewer: With your patients who have lower insight, do you find that their lack of insight is more like a psychosis in the sense that they can't reality perceive reality? Like they will insist on things that are just really apparently not true, like "I can't throw away this piece of trash because it is worth tons of money" and that's kins of like a nonsensical belief, you know, it's an easily disprovable belief. Or do you feel like they don't have those kinds of--or another way of asking that question is are they able to perceive their spaces? Will they deny that their spaces are full? Or is it more that they can see the stuff but they don't recognize that it's truly as extreme as it is or that other people's homes don't look like that?
Interviewee: I actually think they fluctuate. I think it's synched with a desire for items, they might say, "Oh I've got plenty of space to live" and truly believe it at the time. They'll also be able to sit in the middle of their room and say, "there's no space in here, it's too full" at a different time.
Interviewer: So, at some points their beliefs might resemble...they might depart from reality in obvious ways, but it changes and sometimes they are able to kind of see the reality of the situation.
Interviewee: Yeah, and the kind of departures from reality, the main departure from reality I see is one that we all indulge in, and that is thinking that they're going to become a different person in the future. Like not using their own past behavior of a good judge of how they're going to continue behaving in the future.
Interviewer: Interesting, so almost like a kind of optimism.
Interviewee: Yeah, an optimism about what kind of changes are going to occur, and I might do this but the fact that I haven't done it in the past 10 years are not informing my judgement about that.Interviewer: SO like, "I might become a person who can repair this printer and the printer might get fixed."
Interviewee: Yes, yes, exactly. I also sometimes see a kind of distortions around, "I might repair this piece of clothing." And in my world, I would love it if I repaired clothing, but I know I don't. I just don't because they're just not suitable for wearing. I either give them away or throw them away. But only because I could put it aside for mending but I will never do it.
Interviewer: So it's that step that people are kind of lacking, the ability to know what they themselves are likely to do in the future with objects.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, it's like they operate on a should.
Interviewer: And it's less like, "I have this broken printer and I really believe that this printer is worth $1000, I truly have this unreasonable belief in the value of this clearly worthless item," and more that I truly believe that someday I might repair the printer and then the printer might be worth $1000. So it's less like a truly unreasonable belief in the actual value of the item at this moment?
Interviewee: I think it's, you know I do see a lot of statements about there could be some value like somebody will want this VCR. But I don't often hear people spontaneously coming up with [INAUDIBLE] and I think if we start talking about well why do you think a person would be willing to pay and do you think a person would be willing to pay that amount, then I think they would soften up more easily. But because they remain vague, it's worth something not worth nothing, then that's what keeps the object in their home.
Interviewer: So it's more of a distinction between worth and worthless, rather than $200 vs $2.
Interviewee: Yeah, and I think most people have some level of valuation, and that level might depend on your economic circumstances. At some level, when an object falls below that they'll say, "I'm just gonna donate it, it's not even worth my time to figure out who might pay me.
Interviewer: And they just don't have that threshold at all.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: Have you ever encountered individuals who have this problem with animals? Who are animal hoarders?
Interviewee: I have not clinically. My sister rescues cats, and there was a time when she, I felt she was teetering on the edge of cat hoarding. She never flipped over and I had some serious conversations with her and ever since then she's not been near that edge again, but I know animal hoarding is not something I can personally work with, so I don't have much direct experience with it.Interviewer: With your patients who are object hoarders, do you feel like there is an impact of kind of increased national dialogue of climate change and environmentalism on their behavior or the way they talk about their behavior? So do you have people who say, "I can't discard because there's too much trash in the world and this will end up in a landfill or in the ocean."
Interviewee: I see that it hearkens back to a question you asked earlier about which drives which, and a belief driving the behavior or the belief being applied later. I see that as an example of a reason acquired later. I remember when I first started learning to treat OCD, it was in the late 80s and early 90s and HIV was a very big threat. And it seemed like every patient came in and the contamination fears were always about HIV. I feel it's more like that.
Interviewer: So that's kind of like a disorder picking up a sort of characteristic fear or anxiety that is circulating societally, and is just manifesting in that way.
Interviewee: Yeah, it goes back to that dying person. Dying people don't care about the environment, I should care about the environment, so I'm gonna be responsible with this VCR.
Interviewer: Have you seen an increase in people who endorse those kind of environmentalist beliefs? Maybe in the past couple of year as compared to before that?
Interviewee: I'd say the only way I've seen an increase in that is related to perfectionism around recycling. We do a lot of recycling, so it's actually pretty easy to recycle most things but that last 10% of things is hard to recycle. But because we recycle 90%, when you get plastics that actually don't fit what is taken out in the weekly recycling, that's why I see that.
Interviewer: Well I really appreciate your time today, that's all the questions that I had for you and I have very much enjoyed your extremely thoughtful responses, so thank you so much for your time.