Interviewer: Okay, so now I'd like to move into the more kind of conversational portion of our interview, and just to start out if you wouldn't mind introducing yourself in terms of your background related to hoarding disorder, your education and how you encounter individuals with hoarding disorder at work.
Interviewee: I was trained at [INSTITUTION] under [NAME], and so I've been working exclusively through my doctoral and post-doc and the beginning of my career work in the area of hoarding site 2005. This is both my area of research as well as my area of clinical practice, and I'm currently an associate professor in Vancouver, British Columbia at [INSTITUTION]. My work currently is primarily as a researcher, though I provide clinical supervision, I'm not providing direct clinical practice at the moment but I'm clinically supervising students and I'm also someone who does a lot of training and consultation. So I'm invited into communities around the world to provide clinical training, CBT for hoarding as well as other more community-based interventions using [INAUDIBLE] and cage management, and my research has been the area that communities respond to this problem when it becomes a public health and safety perspective. So, when it kind of crosses the line from being a private mental health problem to becoming more, that's my area of research.
Interviewer: And for how long have you encountered hoarding patients, either through your research or through your clinical practice?
Interviewee: Since 2005.
Interviewer: Okay, so for the first portion of the interview we're going to be talking about the ways that clinicians identify patients with hoarding disorder. And just to begin I'd like to ask you, for you what are the most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting or any kind of normal saving, and hoarding disorder? Is it a spectrum? Are there clear delineators and if so, what are they?
Interviewee: I see clear differentiation between concepts like collecting and hoarding, or someone who is just a bit untidy, if you will, versus someone who has hoarding behavior if not meeting diagnostic criteria, and for me there's a couple of pieces there. One is certainly about the volume of possessions, but that's only important in the context of the ability to carry out daily life activities. So I think you cross the line when you've got interference in carrying out ADLs and that accompanied by these strong beliefs and emotions certainly sets someone who is collecting or someone who is a bit untidy apart from someone with hoarding behavior. So I think pure physical manifestation is dangerous, I think we can't make an assessment based on that alone, especially when we're talking about diagnostic levels of hoarding. I think you have to consider those other features as well.
Interviewer: Can you think of an example of a case that was challenging for you to diagnose or that you felt was borderline or was an interesting sort of challenge to decide if it indeed constituted hoarding disorder or not? Have you ever encountered a case like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, you know so it was not a question of--it was a differential diagnosis, the most interesting case but maybe that's a different question. Are you asking me only about did I know if it was hoarding or not hoarding? Or hoarding vs something else?Interviewer: Yeah, so another problem that you might've encountered is distinguishing hoarding disorder from often comorbid and related disorders, like depression or OCD.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, I think the cases of hoarding if I have the kind of clinical information that I was just telling you about, I don't feel like I've struggled very much in those domains. But sometimes I'm called by a community organization and they describe a dwelling to me and I haven't had the opportunity to talk to the person or conduct clinical assessments, I find those nearly impossible because I refuse to sort of say something just based on the volume of possessions alone, but I think the more difficult clinical decisions for me have been differential diagnostic decisions and I can think immediately of one case where there was the saving of rather bizarre items, and I was differentially trying to diagnose whether the hoarding was secondary to OCD or whether hoarding was primary and there were two primary co-occurring conditions. It was very tricky, I think the number of cases where we have hoarding in the context of OCD and kind of bizarre saving are limited. You know, they don't number many overall, so I find those very tricky to figure out what the driver is, what the obsessions and compulsions are. The other situation that I currently am working in and is of great interest to me from a research perspective, but having to do with diagnostics is hoarding in cases of severe substance abuse. So, in downtown east side of Vancouver, in the single room occupancy, SRO housing, there's a very very high drug-use rate, opioids largely and hoarding in SROs is overwhelming, this portion of the city and it's very tricky to figure out if the hoarding is secondary to the substance abuse, if it is a more primal sort of animal kind of instinct hoarding, you know the nesting kind of hoarding that Stephanie Preston has written about, or whether it's primary hoarding. And if it is primary hoarding, is it for, you know, for a means to an end of living because these people are in such obvious poverty. So, those conditions where it's not only a co-occurring other diagnostic problem like substance abuse, but the social elements of life I think really complicate diagnosis sometimes.
Interviewer: So when you say social elements of life, you mean, for instance, poverty and worry about not having enough to eat later so therefore saving things now, that sort of thing.
Interviewee: Yeah, more particularly I'm thinking of it's very common for people from SROs to save things for their chop shops and so it's very hard in a room to know if what's being saved is actually, there's attachment to it and/or if it's a means to a way of life. And if the person is using substances, making that assessment is next to impossible actually.Interviewer: We're gonna talk a little bit more about that later. In fact, the next section of the interview we're gonna talk a little bit about the specific DSM-V criteria, and as I move into that section of the interview, I wonder if at the outside there are particular elements of the DSM-V criteria that you think might be particularly difficult to apply or that you've thought on clinical judgement they might be applied differently by different clinicians in different places. Does anything spring to mind about the criteria off the top of your head?
Interviewee: I was working really closely with [NAME] when the criteria was developed for field trial actually. So, the first thing that comes to mind, which has been a longstanding conversation, is the distress or impairment in functioning criteria, so that "or" is an interesting one there. And of course reflects the egosyntonic vs egodystonic nature of hoarding and all of the controversy that kind of comes up around that, and I think in some ways we put that discussion to bed, but in other ways I think it's really still quite a central question. Not so much is a disorder a disorder if it is egosyntonic, but what does it mean when it is egosyntonic in terms of things like insight and motivation for treatment? So that's one piece, I think another piece that's really interesting to me, and has been since the time of sort of looking at that criteria, is acquisition as a specifier and I'm thinking more broadly about the relationship to compulsive buying sort of the works that [NAME] is doing and the models of compulsive buying and how we understand. Certainly buying is only one form of acquisition, but what the interrelationship is between those two things, especially given the impulse-control problem that is inherent in acquisition that is different in other elements of hoarding behavior. We don't see quite that same impulse-control problem, or at least manifesting in the same way. And then the third thing that I would say is this differential piece between, that the hoarding is better accounted for by other medical or mental health, you know physical or mental health problems and I think, you know, dementia is a whole place, brain injury is a whole place where actually doing the differential diagnosis to understand what the driver is is really complicated, and I don't think the structured energy for hoarding disorder as it currently stands or any of our other assessments, they weren't developed to help us make those differentials. So, I think we're really locked, I think, in those domains.Interviewer: Many of that we're gonna talk about more in just a minute. I'm gonna move through the criteria now and read you a phrase, and then we'll talk about the issues kind of as they come up. And, you know, I just want to hear as I read you the phrase what you think about when you apply this particular part of the criteria. The first part is persistent difficult discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value, and that really reminds me of the conversation we just had about how you determine actual value when you're in a, for instance, the example you gave where things are being sold to a chop shop and everybody is kind of scrambling for small amounts of money. So, what, how do you go about deciding if an item is valuable or not in that context and whether there is kind of inappropriate attachment versus appropriate attachment?
Interviewee: Yeah, that's a very complicated question depending on who you ask, right, you get a very different answer. So my objective assessment, or seemingly objective assessment, is not objective at all of course because I'm influenced by my own cultural elements and all of those things play into this, right, so depending on who's making that assessment about the value of objects and certainly if you talk to the person who's doing the saving and the hoarding of those objects, they often are not of limited value and the monetary or market value is one value and it seems to be, in some ways, the implicit value that we assign as part of the diagnostic criteria. So I think other values are considered, but probably not equally so yeah, I think that phrase is really dependent on who's doing the assessment.
Interviewer: And I guess what I'm wondering also is is the kind of lack of value or lack of selectivity a central component of hoarding disorder? I mean, can you hoard all of only one item? Can your house be full of cuckoo clocks and you have hoarding disorder? Or is the disorder necessary for the disorder? Does that make sense?
Interviewee: Yeah, well I don't, I would say that if the number of whatever the one object is is causing interference and it meets the rest of the criteria, probably I would say one item is sufficient, though it would be hard to imagine how the rest of the criteria would be met with that.Interviewer: Another really interesting example that I read about is an example of a couple, and maybe you've heard of this it's a pretty famous story, they lived in a very small apartment in New York city, which was entirely filled up with objects to the point that they couldn't use the space, they couldn't host people, they couldn't sit down in their own apartment. It just so happened that it was an art collection, and when they died it was an extremely valuable art collection that they had accumulated over the course of like 60 years of living in New York city and it was all donated to the MET and valued at like $6 million, but prior to them dying nobody was able to view the art, nobody was able to enter the apartment, it was basically an unlivable space. And I guess the question I have is does that count as hoarding disorder if they're hoarding appropriately valuable items in a small space that they can no longer use as an apartment?
Interviewee: Yeah, it's a very interesting question because in a way it doesn't meet that criteria of value. But for me, I guess what I'm articulating a lot here is my own weighting of those criteria, so that if it's causing interference in the ability to use their space for the purpose intended, regardless of the actual value, that other criteria weighs a bit heavier for me probably than the actual value. I find that a more subjective criteria in lots of ways.Interviewer: So, this criteria you're talking about, the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use, I guess I'm wondering...well two things. First of all, you gave the example of a supplemental housing situation where they only have one room, and I'm wondering how you make an assessment of hoarding disorder when people can occupy such different amounts of space. So, if you owned a mansion and were very very rich and could afford kind of infinite storage units, such that your space was never compromised, would you ever have hoarding disorder? Would you ever meet criteria for hoarding disorder? Versus somebody who is living in a one bedroom apartment where the amount of stuff they have, you know, you could have a very normal amount of stuff but if you don't have any space, your space will be congested. So, how do you take that into account and do you take that into account? Would a person who has a mansion ever have hoarding disorder if they couldn't fill up their mansion?
Interviewee: You know, for me the answer is yes and I've had the opportunity to treat a number of people over the years who have sort of unlimited resources and a woman in Massachusetts comes right to mind. She lived in a over 6,0000 square foot home, she had a full staff of people, and while all of that was true and she had a team of people who were literally helping her manage the accumulation of possessions so that the physical interference was somewhat kept at bay, the other elements that we've been talking about, that is the attachment to the objects through the strong beliefs and the emotions, the kind of avoidance behaviors, all of that was deeply intact and interfering in her ability to live as she wished to be living. So this was a woman who, for example, couldn't let any water run down the drain without...she had to save in the sink or in the shower, she collected all of that water and stored it and repurposed it. And so you can see the sort of ideas there and the interference in her ability to sort of live in a normal, whatever that means, way even though the clutter was being managed, the same ideas were also the wastefulness and being in control and these perfectionistic ideas generalized from clothing and books to water in this case. So I think space is, yes it's certainly made complicated by the fact that someone who moved from 2300 square feet to 900 square feet now has to manage their hoarding, but we know that those things are not causal in any way. So, the space alone is not causal but makes diagnosis certainly more complicated, assessment diagnosis more complicated. It doesn't necessarily make intervention more complicated, once you have clearly decided what it is, then you can kind of go forward from there.Interviewer: Another interesting diagnostic example that clinicians offered when we were talking about this criteria, and I'd love to hear what you think of this, is a patient that they treated who hoarded digital media so that their objects actually took up very little physical space, but the patient was incapable of ever deleting an email that they ever received or saved all of their browser history and was accumulating slowly hard drives filled with books on PDF and had tens of thousands of them and the physical space in their apartment actually was pretty small, but it was a similar sort of urge or a similar sort of distress with discarding and all of the justifications that the person gave for saving the digital media sounded like hoarding disorder. You know like, "I'll read all of these books someday, I might need it sometime, I'm afraid I'll forget" it didn't seem to sound like OCD but there were no physical objects in sight. So do you think that that would meet criteria for you?
Interviewee: Um, you know it would be...I've had similar cases, perhaps even a bit more extreme where there were multiple screens and a person was kind of unable to, they had to constantly kind of monitor things and then back in the day of VHS tapes and those kinds of things, the accumulation of that kind of technology, VCRs and things which generally speaking does take up quite a lot less space. In the absence of saving other objects, I'm not sure that that alone would meet criteria because it doesn't fully meet the criteria for the accumulation causing interference. For me, the times that I have seen that kind of digital accumulation, it's always also been in the context of saving of other items and/or animals, sadly. One case that I can think of, yeah so I don't think strictly it would been the criteria because it wouldn't meet that interference piece, but if it were in the context of other things, perhaps.Interviewer: You mentioned the kind of like nesting or space kind of creation way of thinking about hoarding, and I mean there is a normal kind of degree of variance in the kinds of spaces that people like to inhabit. Like some people might enjoy a very clear desk, other people might really like to have clutter on their desk and have them feel productive and you know, so I guess how do you think about hoarding disorder in that way? Do you feel like its, that that kind of, that hoarding is a way of creating a comfortable space? Do you see that in your patients? Is that part of how you think about the use of space in hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, I suppose I see it more probably than even just space, I think. The sociologist in me thinks a lot about the idea of home and how people make home and how objects serve as one way for people to make home, but that there's a whole body of literature in sociology about being builders and the nesting piece that we talked about within hoarding is not far from this idea of the usefulness of objects for building, this construct in sociology, and sometimes building is related to making home but sometimes people just build for the sake of building. And I don't mean that in quite the literal--so just to state that it's a construct. And so yes, I see it quite broadly and I think that the continuum is a long one and that we don't fully understand all of the elements, all of the variables, if you will. For example, cultural or geographic region variations in how people use space or the idea of building or building homes, I think we haven't begun to tap into understanding those pieces.
Interviewer: It is really amazing and cool that you bring that up. That's actually a project that I'm working on, I'm actually an anthropology student[INAUDIBLE] PhD, so one of the things that I'm working on is a way of looking at what hoarding disorder can teach us about building homes. So, if that's interesting to you, I don't have anybody that I'm working with on this in anthropology or sociology, so if you wanna talk about that at any point I would love to have somebody to work with on that because it's just been a fun, interesting side project--cuz that's exactly what a lot of this made me think of when I started to encounter it, is what, how those two kinds of ideas or literatures are related. Anyway, that's a side note.
Interviewee: Yeah, feel free to contact me about that work. I'm in a collaboration with, I think you're also talking with my colleague she's [NAME] who's a clinical psychologist at [INSTITUTION] and we are in a collaborative partnership with a third person who's name is [NAME] and he is a sociologist where I choose to have my academic life and social work, he's in sociology and we're writing a paper right now with some of these concepts in them called, "Making Room" is our working title, but yeah I'd be delighted. There's not a lot of conversation about this, so anytime you'd like feel free to reach out.Interviewer: Yeah, I'll follow up our conversation today with an email. We're actually gonna start, I told you at the beginning, we're gonna start talking to patients shortly and I'm actually building a whole section. So we have, this is totally off topic from the interview, but we have a partnership with [NAME]'s lab and hopefully [NAME]'s lab and they both have large kind of research studies going on in hoarding disorder, so a large body of patients who have already consented to do research and we're gonna be calling and doing interviews and asking them about home and what they think of when they think of home and how their space, how items contribute to the building of their home. So, if that would be something that you would like to help us to design, that's the stage that we're at--the design stage--and hopefully we'll be starting within the next couple of months with the patient interviews, so if that's interesting to you I would love to like really really truly deeply would love to have mentorship on that because it's something that I've been doing totally on my own.
Interviewee: Yeah for sure, let's continue the conversation about it.Interviewer: Sorry, so the last of the criteria that I'd like to talk through with you is about distress and it's gonna move us into a conversation about insight that you've kind of already foreshadowed, and the criteria reads, "this difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them." And so the question that I have is about how you're determining distress in this context? If a patient has very low insight and doesn't think that their hoarding is a problem, you know, denies that they are at all distressed and says they're perfectly happy with their space the way that it is, how is the distress kind of criteria met or if the person says they're not impaired, how do you determine what constitutes impairment?
Interviewee: Yeah I think the distress question is slightly more difficult than the impairment question. I think often times it is the collateral context, the people around the person with hoarding that are the distress markers, if you will. So they are the family members or the housing inspector or the child welfare organization, are the markers of distress so they are the ones who are bothered by the saving and the manifestation of the objects, and sometimes in the face of that evidence in clinical interview I have been successful in having clients acknowledge at least why others might be distressed, even if they are not distressed. So they continue to deny their own, but are willing to say, "yes I hear it from other people and I can see why they would be bothered and/or worried." So that's one path that I take in clinical interview for assessment purposes of distress. I think the measures--and I would say that the measures that we have, the standardized measures, you know the hoarding rating scale or the saving inventory revise very little in these ways. They do more in the area of impairment if the person has some amount of insight, but we know that insight of course, or lack thereof, is part of the pathology of this problem. It's also fluctuating, right, so in any given moment a person may be able to say, "yes this is deeply impairing and deeply distressing" and in the very next moment they may deny both of those things, again as part of the illness. So I think both, for me clinically, both distress and impairment is part of my clinical interview more than, I come at those things through the clinical interview more than I use those standardized assessments. I don't think what we have available right now does a very good job.Interviewer: I mean it's interesting for me as a--so, somebody who's not in this field at all--to think about hoarding disorder because in a sense it's unique in two respects. One is it's a disorder that you can't really diagnose from the patient's body or even from their, like an examination of their mind or their speech, it requires external objects to diagnose and I can't think of another disorder that requires something truly external to the patient to have. And then it's maybe not unique in disorders in that the insight problem exists for many psychiatric disorders, where people will deny that they have a problem, but I think this quality of the disorder is distressing to others is also a way that hoarding is weirdly kind of external to the patient themselves. That when clinicians in these interviews talk about distress, they often talk about other people's distress other than the patient's. The patient's spouse, the patient's family, or you know that kind of society at large is distressed, and the patient themselves is the one who is kind of being told that they fit this distress criteria, but often it's the distress of others that is driving them in or is what's really happening. And I don't know I guess I'm just trying to get your thoughts on that on why you think, in this particular case, insight is kind of a problem in that way or why it's having this kind of strange externalizing effect?
Interviewee: Yeah, well I think wherever you have something that is egosyntonic, it's not surprising. True in other conditions, right, so if something feels consistent and right and good, even if there is...intrapsychically if it feels consistent and right and good, evidence from the external world then is what creates the dissonance or ambivalence at best, which then of course can be explored and enhanced, leading potentially to some motivational change. But I think the quality of the fact that these objects are often for people with hoarding where they have their primary relationship, they are where they spend most of their time, they are the source of their identity and good feelings about themselves, and so in the same way that we think about being in a relationship with another person who others might be able to judge from the outside and say, "Oh I wish you wouldn't hang out with that person, they're not good for her" that person doesn't feel that distress. They enjoy that relationship, they enjoy that experience, they're getting whatever they're getting from that relationship and I think the relationship with the objects is very similar here.
Interviewer: That's interesting, like having an abusive relationship with objects.
Interviewee: I'm sorry?Interviewer: Like having an abusive relationship with objects.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, certainly one that is not fully healthy or supporting the person from, in all domains yes. And the, I think the insight piece is tricky because there is to some degree in many people who hoard recognition that they are not like other people. If this weren't true, shame wound't be present. If that wasn't true, there wouldn't be worry about stigma or inviting people in or fear of negative consequences. So, I think this insight piece is worthy of enormous amounts of research and exploration because it is not, for most people, entirely absent. The insight into the impairment, the functional impairment or the negative consequences for self might be more diminished, but for most people that I've encountered clinically, now hundreds of people with hoarding, this idea that they're not like others seems to be present at lest to some greater or lesser extent. So, that part of insight is a little trickier for me. How do we help people who have some awareness that they're not like others actually use that to either be able to articulate the distress that they feel, or to move them toward being more motivated--intrinsically motivated--for treatment?
Interviewer: Mhhm, I mean it really is a very interesting problem, particularly with hoarding disorder, and I think you are exactly right as to why because they do realize that they're different, it's just that they don't see their differentness as a problem and in some cases, in many cases, they see it almost as being a good thing, a thing that is better about them than other people.
Interviewee: That's right, that other people just somehow don't understand the value of things in the way that they do, yep.
Interviewer: And I mean, as a clinician it must be unusual to encounter people like that and to also at the same time see that they are exceptionally creative and that sometimes there's almost something cool about having a person who really sees value in objects and appreciates them in that way.
Interviewee: That's right, that's right yeah for sure.Interviewer: So there was this wonderful paper by [NAME] about the concept of insight, which is really the big one that discusses it and breaks it down and he broke it down into four different constructs that one could talk about when one talks about insight, and I'm gonna read them to you. The first one is defensiveness, the second one is anosognosia or kind of the lack of ability to perceive your illness or that something is wrong and causing you distress or reducing quality of life, the third is overvalued ideation, which is kind of the persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items which could be mild or could be delusional, and then the final one is indifference. And I wonder if you see all of these in your patients, if you see some of them as being more important than others or how you relate what you think of as insight or low insight to these different ideas of defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation and indifference?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think for me the first three I would say I see in equal distribution frequently, and sometimes overlapping. The indifference is...I see far less I would say, at least as I understand Randy to have been talking about it, and I think I also would say about the first three that I see them as present at different levels and with fluctuation as I was saying earlier. So, sometimes in the same patient, that defensiveness is really really patient and other times it is almost entirely absent. And I remember when I first started to treat this problem as a young [INAUDIBLE] clinician that was, that was a bit crazy-making for me. It was hard to understand how one day these problems around insight were so present, and then I'd sit with the same patient the next week and it was almost as if it was a different person talking about the same conditions. And then sure as I got familiar with that then here comes the defensiveness again or here comes the anosognosia or you know. So, yeah I think I could probably count on two hands the number of patients out of the hundreds that I've worked with where the indifference was very strong. I think it's a much more limited feature from my perspective.
Interviewer: It's interesting to me because overvalued ideation certainly, and anosognosia perhaps to a lesser extent, almost sound like a psychosis or like an inability to perceive reality. Like you look at an object and you truly believe that it's worth more than it is in a way that departs from reality, or you look at a space and you truly cannot see the space as it exists, and I wonder if that's a part of insight for you? If that kind of like break from reality and the ability to perceive reality, is that a big part for you? Is that a small part?
Interviewee: I think it's a big part, though when I compare it to--I also do work in the area of animal hoarding--and when I compare those two to the sort of delusional, articulated, persistent delusional beliefs that we hear alongside animal hoarding, that makes the anosognosia and overvalued ideation look like nothing, quite honestly. It makes it look like mild.Interviewer: I was just gonna follow up and ask you about animal hoarding.
Interviewee: People who hoard animals have this very strong delusional belief, you know, they can be standing in four feet of feces among carcasses of animals and tell you that they're the only person to provide good care. And so I think it is on a continuum and when I think only about object hoarding, I would say that yes I would agree with you that it probably tends towards something less in touch with reality, though my clinical experience of it is I've never actually had to think in my mind, "Oh is this person not in touch with reality?" What it is is such a deeply held belief, it is the definition of a core belief in my mind because it is just this belief that, "because I own this pen, it is worth more than you will ever understand, it is worth more than any other pen like it in the store, it is because it is mine and it has been with me on this journey." So, that's the flavor of it much more so than a dissociated reality, at least to my experience. Sorry, one caveat though I would say is the saving of bizarre items that we see in the smaller percentage of hoarding that overlaps with OCD. Sometimes that overvalued ideation takes a bit more of an out of touch feeling around the bizarre items, but I would say that's the exception and not the rule.
Interviewer: And when you think about the reasons people give, which we made a list of at the beginning, the reasons that they save items. So, those may be related that core belief and maybe even including it, when you think about hoarding disorder, do you feel like the reasons you gave like it's sentimental, it might help me to not forget things, you know those sorts of reasons, do you feel like they are truly driving the disorder? Or do you feel like they're kind of post-hoc justifications that the patient has for kind of an underlying essential biological need to save things, and then they just kind of...they save it, they need to save it, and then when you ask them why, they kind of generate a justification for it?
Interviewee: Um...no, it is my belief that as an anxiety-based disorder that the saving that is happening and the justification for the saving is based in fear and worry, and it is the excessive fear and worry that leads to the thinking that is reinforced both with the accompanying strong emotion. So they have this fear and then all of the accompanying emotions alongside the fear about what will happen if I don't have this object, and what leads me to say that is when I hear these justifications from clients, it's often accompanied by a clear articulation of a very bad thing that would happen to them or to someone that they loved, ranging from some bodily harm to something akin to some kind of disaster. So, it feels to me not like a justification, it seems that it is this primal urge that is driven by fear and fear's powerful, right? And sometimes it's there for good reasons, but in other cases it is not justified, and I think that's where things get confused for people with hoarding.Interviewer: Do you see, and this is of particular interest to me, but do you see kind of cultural values relating to the proper way to own items or dispose of them or maybe forces associating value and self-worth with ownership and material goods, do you see them as related? And maybe one example may be people who save things because they're worried about the environment. Do you feel like those reasons that people give to save are reflections of those kinds of, maybe like larger ideas about the place of items in the world and the things that can happen with them? I don't know, that was a very vague question.
Interviewee: Yeah no, I see them. Certainly my social work and sociology training, I see them as intricately connected. I think, and again I think we haven't scratched the surface here, but I think it ranges from personal values and cultural elements across the cultural and societal levels. So, I sort of see that PCS model. I think all of our notions about how much is too much and cleanliness and not cleanliness and wastefulness and ideas of what is good and all of those things are culturally determined, and I think they're reinforced, personally they're reinforced at the familial level and they're certainly reinforced societally. I think further complicating that are cultural elements of economic structures and systems. I think there are cultural elements of private ownership of goods and the value of ownership of goods that are certainly culturally and societally driven. One of the things that I'm, you know I remain quite interested in, is in societies where private ownership is not valued in the ways that that it is in the global north, what would we see around hoarding? Would the phenomenon even have roots, because it couldn't manifest in the same ways? So, I think yeah I think there's a whole pile of questions and no answers in that category, but I certainly see culture and society as being deeply influential around this problem.Interviewer: And I want to be respectful of your time, so if you have to go at any point please just let me know, I'm pretty much at my last question. So, when you typically encounter hoarders, how long do they say that their behavior has been going on?
Interviewee: Well...I mean the, I was part of the clinical trial, I was a study therapist on the [INAUDIBLE] trial, from which the data emerged that people begin saving and [INAUDIBLE]. And so I treated a whole pile of people who described this behavior starting, you know, around 13, 14, 15 years old and just having what we clinically describe as a chronic and worsening course. I would say that's the vast majority of the people that I've treated, and if not in their teens certainly by their late teens and early twenties they have some awareness that it was causing impairment as they were at college or beginning to live autonomously away from their families of origin. And the piece that's very interesting to me over and over again is that yeah there were all these pre-disposing sort of bits that were there from childhood, and then there are these real markers of things, moments in life where things got much worse and then it plateaued, and then there was this other thing and oh yeah it got much worse again; so, sort of these flashpoint, if you will. I will say I've also treated a handful of people who've described a much, not much but a couple of decades later onset of the problem. So, they sort of mark the beginnings in their 30s and 40s, much later than the typical age of onset, and because it has a chronic and worsening course, you know we see a whole pile of it, especially involuntary clients, in older adults years. But most of the people, and I don't work primarily with older adults, I'm sometimes called in to consul on those cases, but I think that the idea that it just doesn't get better without intervention, and because it is a problem that primarily occurs behind closed doors and homes and until very recently and in most cases we are still doing a terrible job of assessing for this in an outpatient way. You know, you go to the doctor and nobody's asking you if there's clutter in your home or if you can use the rooms in your home for the purpose intended, and so it can remain this very hidden problem. And because of the shame and stigma, people become more and more isolated in the problem. And so I think, unless they actually ask for help or come forwards, figuring out the progression of this is very tricky business.Interviewer: Yeah, so that's kind of along the lines of what I was going to ask you about. How do you distinguish between chronically progressive and kind of the normal sort of social life events, which happen to many people? Like your parents die and leave you a bunch of stuff, your children leave home and so you're now alone in the house, your marriage ends or your spouse dies and so you're more isolated? And do you as a clinician think that it's related to things like dementia, and therefore related to aging, and therefore that's why we see it as more prevalent in older adults? Or do you see it as progressive in more of a kind of social sense in the sense that people tend to have more items and be more isolated as they age?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think the demential piece is again an area that's really understudied and not well understood. I think anything that we have is, you know we have a few good studies but it's mostly hypothesis at this point. I think for me the normal life events against a back trap, again all of those vulnerabilities, against a back trap of those genetic predispositions for this and neurobiological features and factors that are brought to life means that certainly it can be present for a long time before it reaches the flashpoint, or it might be a slow...you know, the snowball rolling down the hill that gains this momentum and size as it goes. And I think we don't fully understand any of that yet, I think clinically the most important thing that we can do as part of our assessment is to take that decade by decade like history and really try to understand what were the best vulnerabilities for developing this problem. You know, if we can get approximate age of onset and then what does the chronicity look like and then what were the periods of worsening course, I think that would give us our best bet for hopefully someday earlier intervention and maybe prevention work, but we're such a long way from that.
Interviewer: Can you hear me okay?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay, that's the last little list we have for you, and now I'd like to get into the more kind of conversational portion of our interview. Could you just begin by giving me a brief overview in terms of your background related to hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Sure, so for the past nine years, I have worked in a community agency doing individual group treatments for hoarding disorder. I also work in a care facility and am currently doing research and treatment and on creating an assessment to care planning method for hoarding disorder in care settings. I also work as a clinical social worker doing private practice, individual or family work with people with hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Okay, and your educational background?
Interviewee: I have a master's in social work and a bachelor's in psychology.
Interviewer: Okay. Okay, so the first thing I'd like to talk to you about in this interview is about how you distinguish hoarding disorder from other kind of behaviors that are more on the spectrum of normalcy and how you diagnose it? Do you diagnose people with hoarding disorder clinically?
Interviewee: No.Interviewer: Okay, I'm gonna start by asking you kind of broad questions, and then I'd like to ask you a little bit about the specific DNS-IV criteria, although I know you don't necessarily use them in diagnosis, I assume you're really familiar with them. Is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Just to begin with as a broad first question, for you what are the most important differences between things that are on the spectrum of normal saving behavior, even thinking about something like extreme collecting, and hoarding disorder? How do you differentiate?
Interviewee: Um, so it would be the...like the emotional attachment to the item, usually people that have just collecting behaviors don't feel that emotional connection to the object, they look at the object differently. So, generally when people want to get rid of something, if they don't have hoarding disorder they can get rid of it with little help or a little bit of time. People with hoarding disorder will get extreme amounts of anxiety when they think about or try to discard something. So, that's the biggest difference is the emotional attachment and the feelings regarding the item.
Interviewer: Is there a different in terms of--
Interviewee: And it's also--sorry. A lot of times it's not just one type of item. Like with collectors, collectors will collect like certain things but people with hoarding disorder will usually, it'll be random items. So, it could be different types of items, not just one type.
Interviewer: So, it sounds like individuals who are collectors will not have the same degree of emotional attachment and will not have the same kind of emotional reaction to discarding, whereas individuals with hoarding disorder have a strong emotional attachment and also individuals with hoarding disorder tend not to gravitate to certain kinds of items, they tend to be more indiscriminate.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Have you ever encountered an individual that you felt was a borderline case, or somebody who you were kind of not sure about whether they would fit this diagnosis or not, and can you tell me a little bit about a case like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, so I [INAUDIBLE] mostly because families are involved or because of the space. You know, a lot of my clients don't actually meet clinical diagnosis, or wouldn't meet a clinical diagnosis because they may live in a facility that has certain rules or certain guidelines, or they may live with their family members or have been working on their hoarding disorder for long periods of time, but they still have the emotional attachment to objects and they still have the anxiety and the difficulty discarding and trouble with organization, so they still have all of the trouble that goes along with the hoarding disorder, but their space may not meet the diagnosis. So, you know, it may not be significantly cluttered to the point that they can't use certain spaces in their home, but they still have the difficulties discarding and you know, they may have acquiring issues but they may still be managing it. So, they may still be suffering from the symptoms of hoarding disorder, but not actually meet a diagnosis. So, I will get clients like that often.Interviewer: Do you ever feel that there is a borderline or a difficult with hoarding disorder in other co-morbid disorders? So, do you ever have difficulty telling if somebody is truly depressed or perhaps has a sense of compulsive disorder, versus they truly have hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yes, I do see that but because I do treatment in the field, regardless of whatever they're struggling with, a lot of the treatment for the actual trouble with the items is the same. So, I'll be working with them, you know if they have other issues going on, you know working with their anxiety but then working with their hoarding problem the same way as I would with anybody.
Interviewer: And do you feel like there's maybe some overlap also that might make it difficult in conditions where the person is extremely impoverished or is saving things because they might actually need to sell them or they might be keeping them, you know, keeping things that people might normally not keep but because of the socioeconomic position the person's living in they're saving them? Or do you not have that difficulty?
Interviewee: Yeah, I do have that difficulty but usually what I've found in the past is that'll be something the client will say, but when explored a little bit further, like you know, "I have to keep this because I can't afford to get another one, or "I can't afford to replace it if I need it, this other item that's similar will break," but often when I look at it further with them, it's more about like you know their difficulty with discarding, not because they need to hold onto some things for financial reasons. That's just kind of --
Interviewer: It's a justification rather than a real thing.
Interviewee: Yeah exactly, a justification. So, you know if you have 5 of something you only maybe need 2 of at the most, but that is a reason a lot of my clients use.Interviewer: Now I'd like to talk more specifically about the DSM-IV criteria themselves. Thinking about the diagnosis of hoarding and the criteria for the diagnosis of hoarding, are there any particular elements that kind of off the top of your head you think of as particularly difficult to apply or that different clinicians might apply differently or might be particularly subjective?
Interviewee: Well I think that the DSM-IV doesn't really take into account other settings. Like, you may see hoarding disorder or hoarding behavior, so I have to often...even though somebody had hoarding behaviors in the community but no one ever really diagnosed them, and if they come into a care setting like a long-term care setting or a hospital, they're still having that hoarding behavior and the difficulty discarding, but they wouldn't meet the criteria because their space isn't cluttered because they're living in a care home, but they still would have hoarding disorder. So, I think there's a lack of looking at the [INAUDIBLE] spaces with the diagnosis. So, I think people could still have hoarding disorder or difficulties, like same symptoms without being assessed as having the actual disorder. And you know, for many services you have to be diagnosed with something in order to meet the criteria for service, so that's unfortunate. I also think there's a lack of practitioners that can diagnose and feel comfortable diagnosing it. Like in the area where I live there's nobody working with hoarding disorder, there's no psychiatrists or psychologists working with hoarding disorder that have any sort of understanding or experience. So, clients can't see somebody that can diagnose them with something because of the lack of experience with professionals. I have no idea if I answered your whole question.
Interviewer: Yeah, no you totally did. It sounds like particularly you're talking about the part of the DSM-IV that says, "The difficulty discarding possessions results the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use," and it sounds like your problem with this is that people sometimes don't have control over their spaces, and so their active living areas aren't technically compromised and so they don't meet this criteria and so then they don't get the diagnosis, even though they exhibit all of the behaviors and ideation that go along with hoarding disorder. Does that seem right?
Interviewee: Yes, that's right.
Interviewer: Yeah I mean that is a question that I have about the DSM-IV as well and I was gonna ask you in particular, in situations like this how you make a judgement about whether you would consider them a person with hoarding disorder when this criteria isn't met, and it sounds like what you're saying is for you this criteria isn't a deal breaker. That they might not have congested and cluttered active living areas, but that they still might be a person with hoarding disorder. Does that?
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly. So, you know if they have the difficulty discarding, trouble with decision-making, all the other things, I think that they still may have hoarding disorder but because we can't get a diagnosis I kind of differentiate hoarding behavior and hoarding disorder because we can't have a diagnosis, but I see this often in my work.Interviewer: So there's another component about the DSM-IV that talks about difficulty discarding regardless of actual value, and I'm wondering if you've ever dealt with this as a component of wondering if somebody is an individual with hoarding disorder? So, does the value of the possessions that they're saving play into your thinking about this disorder? We tend to think of individuals with hoarding disorder as saving things that are objectively valueless or over-estimating the value of items, but could you have a person who has this disorder who saves things that are valuable?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah that also is something...like I have clients who will only hoard brand-new item, like electronics, but they have the same feelings towards these objects even though they haven't used them, they have no immediate use for it, it's cluttering up you know. They can't use their kitchen because they have no many appliances, so I think it also depends on people's means and what they're actually hoarding. So, the items may not have little or no value, or they may have lot's of value. I think that's also suggestive to the individual and you know who working [INAUDIBLE] what they think is valuable or not.
Interviewer: So, it sounds like for you the really crucial thing with individuals with this--and I like how you say this behavior, it sounds like it really comes down to the kind of attachment to objects, their emotional connection to object. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Exactly, yeah.
Interviewer: And so it doesn't really matter what they're saving or how much they have because how much they have and what they're saving is kind of contextual, but if they have that strong sense of emotional connection to an object, that for you qualifies them as at least having behavior even if you can't technically give them the diagnosis. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right and maybe also with the decision-making. Like when I talk to people, when they have difficulties knowing what to recycle and what to put in the garbage and what's still usable and what isn't usable, that also can be an indication to me along with the attachment to the object and those emotional feelings towards the object, that can be telling to me about whether they have hoarding behavior.Interviewer: Do you feel like there's a component of hoarding I guess we'll say behavior that is about the management of space? So, some people might enjoy a very clear and open space, whereas other people may feel really comfortable being surrounded by objects in a different way. Do you feel like is a part of hoarding behavior, or do you think that that is separate or not always seen, or sometimes?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it depends on the person and you know I think it really takes a lot of time to understand somebody. Like why do they feel safe in a place that has a lot of stuff? Like what is it about the stuff and their space that is making them feel comfortable? And I think it's really important for anybody to understand that not everybody lives in the same way, like I wound't necessarily live in a home like my friend who has lots of stuff, but she may be more comfortable in that space than I am. So, I think when I look at it, I look at why they are living in that space and if there's safety lists involved that they're not considering, like I can see a lot from somebody I get a lot of consultations about. You know, this person is hoarding and then I go into their home and they just have a lot of stuff. There's no safety risks, but their family or their mental health worker just views it as being like not good or not a way that they would live. So, you know, in my experience I look at...when I'm looking specifically at space, less at their attachment, I look at the safety risks.
Interviewer: So, you might go into somebody's house and feel like wow this is really a lot of stuff, but you don't make the call as to whether it's a disorder on the basis of your subjective impression of how much they have. You really only look at their space in terms of can they...is it interfering with their activities of daily living, can they get in and out of the house, does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right, or if it's a fire risk and do they really feel safe in that space or comfortable in that space, or do they just feel uncomfortable with changing that space? So, I kind of have to make sure there's a differentiation between what's comfortable for them and if they're just not wanting to deal with the space. But really looking less at my own feelings towards their home, if that makes sense.
Interviewer: Do you frequently asses your clients' homes or space as part of an evaluation?
Interviewee: Yes, especially because--
Interviewer: And do you typically go to their home?
Interviewee: Yeah, I go to their homes.
Interviewer: And what were you going to say, especially because?
Interviewee: Because that's kind of the only way that people get some service or...you know, that's the only way that I'm often involved in their space is because somebody else said that their space is unsafe for them to live in, so I look at the safety risks. If someone invites me into their home, generally it's because they want to make changes on their own and I do look at the safety risks but...yeah the safety risks is one of the biggest things I look at.Interviewer: So, often it's because somebody else has judges their space to be kind of a risk, and so you go into their home to assess the safety and to see if it really is a risk.
Interviewee: Exactly.
Interviewer: Earlier I asked you for a list of ways that you could tell a person had hoarding disorder, and I wonder if in addition to kind of the objective list, when I do these interviews with clinicians they sometimes say that like if they were to look at a waiting room at a new patient, they would often be able to feel like they could tell if that person was coming in for hoarding problems, and they kind of give almost like a stereotypical picture of what that patient looks like. I wonder if you have a sense, if a patient is sitting in your waiting room, you've never seen them before but you kind of can guess that they're there for hoarding problems. What does that person look like?
Interviewee: So, well there are I guess times where I have an idea that they may have it, but I also want to add that a lot of people have hoarding problems and they don't look like it at all. Many of my clients work full-time jobs and they work in government jobs and they work as teachers or whatever, and they don't look at all like they would have a typical hoarding disorder, but if I saw somebody that you know...they usually are carrying a lot of random things like shopping bags or reusable bags that have like a lot of paper or bottles. Sometimes they look like they haven't bathed or showered because they may not have the ability to shower often. They may look, sometimes they wear layers of clothing or have items that wouldn't really fit with going out to an appointment on them like quite a bit of books or papers or scrap papers.
Interviewer: Do you feel like there are likewise kind of stereotypical personalities, like they tend to be a certain kind of person, they tend to have certain other kind of non-clinical personality traits?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: I know that a lot...just from my experience, my clients are so varied that I can't really say that there are certain personality traits. Maybe, you know...no I can't really say.
Interviewer: So like for example, sometimes clinicians will say that their hoarding clients are particularly creative, are particularly bubbly or extraverted, want to be involved in everything that's around them, that's the kind of thing I'm getting at.
Interviewee: Okay, well I do think that a lot of my clients do think in very creative ways, like they may not be creative like art creative, but they can find uses for items that I would never think about. So, they can reuse objects or have ideas for certain things that they can create or use them for, but for me my clients vary so much from extraverted to introverted, it just kind of depends on the person. But yeah, they do have very creative minds and often seem a bit disorganized. Like, they can't organize, it may not be about their items or their space, but they sometimes have very disorganized thinking. So, it's hard for them to stick to one topic at a time when talking. They'll kind of move around in the conversation and get distracted.Interviewer: So, kind of the same sort of difficulty judging the importance or prioritizing in speech as they might have with objects.
Interviewee: Yes, exactly.
Interviewer: So, now I'd like to talk about the criteria in the DSM which says, "This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them." So, I guess I'm wondering how you asses that kind of degree of distress associated with discarding? Especially because people might deny distress, so it may be purely hypothetical distress, so they might be more distressed at their behavior--I guess first of all, how do you make that assessment?
Interviewee: Yeah, so when discussing about what to discard, if clients have difficulty knowing where to start of what items to discard. So, they may look at like a newspaper from 10 years ago the same as they would a brand new book. So, they don't know what to discard, they have no starting point so when they start to think about discarding you can tell by body language that they're having difficulty even deciding what item to pick up and then getting distressed when thinking about what to do with it. So, it's not just about like, "I'm gonna get rid of...in this table I'm gonna pick up all the garbage and throw the garbage away," but what is garbage and what isn't garbage. So, I think that is a distress because when they try to make a decision, they just kind of shut down and they can't make that decision. So, they have difficulty knowing where to start, and then the anxiety that they get. So, a lot of times they'll do self-talk like, "well I guess I could get rid of this," or "I could use this for this" or you know, they can't really make that one decision quickly. They have to kind of go through the motions of what if. They always talk about what ifs, and I know they're starting to get distressed when they're thinking about all the possibilities. When they're trying to make a decision it's, "what could go wrong." They start catastrophizing, you know, "if I got rid of this item," kind of think about the worst possible thing that could happen, instead of just, "I'm getting rid of it and then it's out of my head." And then they will start to ruminate on the possibility that they made a mistake if they do make a decision, so that's kind of how I measure distress. They may not say, "I'm distressed" or that they have difficulty, but the length of time even to make a decision is telling.
Interviewer: Do you have patients that deny that they would be distressed if they discarded? So, you're sitting with a patient and you say, "Well if you were to throw out this news paper, would it distress you?" And they would say, "No, I would be fine throwing it out," do you have that interaction with patients? Or is it--
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: How do you feel with that? How do you kind of push on that? Do you ask them to then discard it, or?
Interviewee: Yeah, basically.Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE] In a situation where you know, "Okay then I'll take it and put it in the recycling," or "Okay then I'll take it and donate it to this place," and then they'll say "Oh no I'm not sure" and then it kind of goes through...they might not have insight into their own feelings until they're actually questioned about it. So,
Interviewer: So you have to kind of confront them with it before they are even aware that they would be distressed.
Interviewee: Yeah, or you know I think sometimes they know they may be distressed or have difficulty, but they don't want to admit it. I think what matters a lot for like the practitioner working with them is to have a really strong therapeutic relationship, where they feel comfortable talking about their feelings. Otherwise, helping them to reach a level of insight into their feelings is really difficult, and it's hard to learn new behaviors and to work on the actual attachment or the emotional part of the treatment if they don't have insight into their feelings.
Interviewer: You use the word insight, and insight is a lot, in hoarding literature, kind of identified as a difficulty with this disorder, so I'd like to turn the conversation to insight, but first I want to ask how you would define insight in the context of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Whether people can recognize that they are having difficulties or anxieties or difficulties with discarding if they see the risks involved with their behavior. So, if they, you know...I don't always, it doesn't always matter to me if they say, "I have hoarding disorder, I have a hoarding problem" or "I hoard items," because I think there's a lot of negative aspects to using that word with clients, they don't want to be labeled. And so I don't always think like insight means they have to--
Interviewer: Identify as a hoarder.
Interviewee: Identify that they are hoarding or have a hoarding problem. So, it's more about whether they see the risks involved or whether they see what their behavior is doing to others and what it's doing to themselves, even if they can't recognize their feelings. But you know, do they understand that they're having difficulty sleeping because they have so much stuff in their bed that they sleep on the couch? And that it's the amount of stuff that they have is contributing to the fact that they can't do certain things or that they are having difficulty discarding that other people wouldn't have.Interviewer: And when you see clients, how much insight would you say most people have by the time you see them?
Interviewee: It depends on how they're being referred to me. So, you know I often get family members that will ask me to go and talk to their family member with them, kind of like an intervention or going in to assess. The city might ask me to go in and assess, so it depends if the client is asking to see help or agreeing with seeking help, or not. So, if the client is agreeing, they usually have some level of insight. Usually they can't understand all of how their behaviors are contributing to their anxiety or depression or whatever, or how much of a safety risk it is, but they have an idea that they have an issue, but if somebody else is referring them they usually have some insight that they have more stuff than other people, but they don't know why other people are bothered by it. SO, it kind of depends on how they come to me. And I often find clients who have a lot of stuff and are having difficulty, they have some insight. Like, a lot of times I know research says that they don't, but I find that they do understand that their living spaces do not fit other living spaces. Or how society deems them to have certain living spaces, that's why they're not letting people into their home, because they know they're going to be judged based on their living space. They may not understand fully, but they have some insight.
Interviewer: So, it sounds like you're almost drawing a distinction here between two different kind of levels or kinds of insight. So, it sounds like you're saying that most people are aware that they have more space than average, or they have more stuff than average, and to some extent are aware that there's stigma around having this much stuff or that other people might not get it. And then there's kind of the second level, which is recognizing that having so much stuff is causing them distress, or causing their life to have--having negative impacts on their lives. And it sounds like you're saying the first kind of insight, recognizing the behavior as abnormal is pretty common, and then the second level of insight, recognizing the behavior as kind of contributing to difficulties in their life, is less common or more difficult to achieve. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yes, I think so yeah.
Interviewer: And when patients do kind of self-refer or come to you with awareness of the fact that this is a problem in their lives, do you have any kind of knowledge of how they have reached that conclusion on their own? Like what has happened in their life typically to help them to get there?
Interviewee: Usually it's causing relationship issues, so either with someone in their immediate family or a friend or family members worry about them or they're kind of bugging them to get help, or it could be like they're gonna get evicted, so outside factors usually forcing them to get help. Or they have, you know, they want to have their grandchildren over and their children are telling them it's not safe. So, there's usually an outside influence. I find my clients are generally fine living the way they are until something else, another factor's involved. Or maybe, you know, if they can't shower and they're constantly going to the hospital for skin sheets.Interviewer: So, some outside influence or else like an actual health impact on their life.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: So, there's a really interesting paper that describes kind of lack of insight in this population, and it breaks the idea down into four constructs and I'd like to read you the constructs and have you kind of comment on whether or not you think that these are relevant to the patients that you see, and what you think are the most relevant. So, the construct are defensiveness, anosognosia, which is defined as the lack of ability to perceive and illness or that something is wrong or causing distress. The third one is overvalued ideation, which is kind of the persistent belief that the value of items is more than it is in reality, and then the final one is indifference. Of those four, and I'll read them again--defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation and indifference--do you feel like some of them are more relevant and some are less relevant? Or do you see them all? Do you see none of them?
Interviewee: Defensiveness, depending on how people come to me but yeah I think they're usually trying to give a reason as to why things are happening. Like why they're keeping something, or why it's not a problem and why other people shouldn't perceive it as a problem, they're I=kind of defending their behavior. I don't know whether or not, you know I often find that people are like that or are defensive because of past bad experiences they've had. When I explore it further with them, they have to become defensive because other people have said things like, "This is disgusting" or "how can you live like this?" So they immediately become defensive, but if often you have a good relationship with the person, you talk things further, they can get to the place where they understand that it's a problem, but their first reaction is defensiveness and it's usually because something bad has happened. I think often yeah they do have like a lack of ability to understand that there are risks, there are problems involved with what they're doing, until something else happens or somebody gets involved.
Interviewer: Thinking about particularly anosognosia and overvalued ideation, I'm wondering if these are things you see in your patients. So I guess anosognosia might be a little bit more like you really look at a space and you don't see the stuff, you know what I mean? Like it looks normal to you.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Whereas overvalued ideation almost sounds like a delusion or something where you look at the stuff and you really truly believe that it has value beyond what's rational. Do you see those two kind of ideas in your patients?
Interviewee: I don't really see like my clients going into a space and seeing it as being normal. I've never really seen that, they often can understand...like they might not see the full risk of it or the full problem as other people would, but they don't ever, I've never had a client that looks at a really cluttered space and thinks that there is no problem. They do see something, and this is why they're not letting people into their house.Interviewer: And do you have clients who will pick up a piece of trash and say like, "I could sell this and make $500" or is that pretty unusual?
Interviewee: It's pretty unusual. Like, I do see clients that they do think that they can sell something, but there's usually some logic to it. Like it is an electronic, it might be 20 years old but there is a possibility that someone somewhere may want this old DVD player because it still works. I can understand some of their logic in that, but they may not have like the full ability to understand, well what's more important? Your health or getting 5 dollars for this DVD player? So I think they do have, they overvalue certain things and they will think of multiple uses for items and think that they can use it for multiple things, but they don't really look at cost versus benefit.
Interviewer: Right, right right.
Interviewee: How long is it gonna take you to do this? And you're about to be evicted, so.
Interviewer: But it's not like a full-on delusion where it's like this--
Interviewee: Sorry, can you say that again?
Interviewer: It's not like a full-on delusion in the sense that it's not a totally irrational belief. It's not that they're completely pulling something out of left field. It makes sense, it's just that it's not really reasonable that they'll go through all the trouble to do that behavior of selling it.
Interviewee: Right, yeah like I've never really had someone look at a pop bottle and say, "I can sell this" like "oh I can use this for water," but if they're looking at 15 of them they don't say, "I can use all 15 for water."
Interviewer: Have you ever encountered individuals with animal hoarding problems?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: And do you feel like that's a kind of object hoarding? Do you feel like it's the same sort of thing, or do you feel like it's a completely separate problem? And how do they differ?
Interviewee: I think it's a completely separate problem.
Interviewer: Okay, do you want to talk a little bit about what you think the major differences are besides obviously that one has animals?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that the reason for hoarding is completely different. And I don't work with people with animal hoarding like regularly or anything, but I think that the reason for hoarding is completely different. They don't have difficulty with decision making the same way, they don't have...like they have an emotional attachment, but I think that they might be stemming more from attachment issues rather than emotional attachment to objects or difficulty understanding like useful or non-useful things. So, I think it is more like...it's stemming from like attachment issues. Like people attachment issues.
Interviewer: There's a difference in where the emotional attachment is coming from, if that makes sense.
Interviewee: Yeah, and maybe a difficulty understanding their ability to care for something rather than difficulty decision making.
Interviewer: Do you feel like there's differences in terms of the level of insight that people tend to have?
Interviewee: Yes, definitely.Interviewer: Yeah, and it sounds like the conversation we were just having about people with object hoarding behaviors and being able to see the problem in some level, do you feel like that's different with individuals with animal hoarding?
Interviewee: Yeah, well I don't have enough experience but in my experience I feel like people with animal hoarding, they don't really have the insight into the...you know, they do have a lot of love and care--many of them do, I know there's different types of animal hoarding but many of them do love and care for the animals, but they cannot see that they're not caring for the animals properly.
Interviewer: So that maybe is a true blindness almost rising to the level of delusion?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Kind of the end of the interview but just to kind of finish up with some broad questions about your thinking about these kinds of problems, at the beginning of the interview I asked you to generate a list of reasons that people with hoarding problems tend to give to justify their behavior, and I wonder if kind of thinking abstractly, do you think that these reasons that they give are kind of what's driving the behavior? Or do you think that the behavior is what's coming first, and the reasons that people give are kind of post-hoc explanations for a compulsive behavior?
Interviewee: I think a lot of times the explanation for the behavior, because they're being asked why you're doing it. Yeah, they do kind of justify the behavior coming up with whatever they can to justify why they keep something or why they're doing something, rather than that's actually the reason why they're doing it. Because I can ask somebody the same question about why they're keeping this one day, and then the next day they'll give me a completely different answer.
Interviewer: So it seems like they're saving it and then maybe when they're questioned as to why they're saving it, they're coming up with a reason.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it could be different in different people, but it my experience most of the time, they'll say a reason why they're saving it and then I will kind of refuse that and say "well there has to be more," and then they'll come up with another reason. So, I don't think that the reason for actually saving that they're giving me is the reason why they're saving it.
Interviewer: So, the behavior is kind of driving the justification.
Interviewee: I think so.Interviewer: How long have these kinds of, for the patients you tend to see, how long has the behavior typically been doing on when you see them? Do you have any sense of that?
Interviewee: Well on average from my experience, they've had these saving behaviors, the difficulty discarding for a long long period of time, probably as long as they can remember. They remember childhood and having some behaviors, but it hasn't gotten to the point where it's been a problem or that they've recognized or someone else has noticed as being a problem. Usually they can tell me about some big event that happened like loss of their family and they've inherited some things and they've ended up having so many things that it became overwhelming and they just kind of gave up on managing it. So, usually they've been managing it, you know they've always had a little bit too much stuff but something has prompted them to stop managing it, and then it became out of control like a health issue, or caring for a family member, or loss of the family member, some big event. It's not always like that, but generally they talk about having these behaviors for like their life.Interviewer: So, literature on hoarding disorder kind of says it tends to be older people who are people with hoarding problems, and I guess I'm wondering do you feel like it's because it's a progressive disorder, so it worsens with age, maybe with cognitive decline? Or do you feel like that's more related to their life course in terms of their parents have died, they've inherited things, their children have left their home, or their spouses died, or they've gotten divorced and now they--it's not that the behavior necessarily has gotten worse so much as their life has changed to the point that the management of objects has gotten out of control? Like due to mobility issues just with having a house and accumulating stuff within it, or maybe both?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it's a little bit of both but I think it's usually, like for my clients I have clients that are 18 to 90-something years old, and I think that all of the older clients can talk about that they did have some of the behaviors and the tendencies until something happened, and I think it's accumulation of the objects or major stressors that have caused backsliding. You know, they often will talk about how they tried to manage it or that they tried to keep things clear and they tried to work on their discarding, and then something else has happened. So I think when they're adults there's also accumulation of stuff, the life events that have happened, they're also accumulating a lot of the times stuff of their children or grandchildren that lived in their home, they're also dealing with major life stressors that may be contributing to the difficulties that they're having. They also have mobility and other health issues that are involved, so they can't do the same things that they used to do like move things around or get rid of things. They may not be driving, but I think that it may not be that the actual hoarding or the actual feelings or attachment has gotten worse with older adults, I think it's accumulation of what's happened in their life. Like the life events and the accumulation of items, because my clients that are 18 can talk about items the same way and have the same feelings as somebody in their 80s. And usually the older adults don't have the outside influence of their parents or spouse or partner, roommates that are stopping them from over cluttering. You know, they're usually living alone or they're in their own space so that they're able to accumulate in a way. They're not having like that outside influence.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the impulse may be the same, but it's a lot of social factors that turn it into a bigger problem for older adults. So, younger people might have hoarding behavior and might have the kind of ideation that goes along with it. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yes. In some cases I do have some younger clients that they are having, like their houses are so filled that they can't use spaces and would meet the DSM diagnosis, but they also have other factors too like they do have health issues. They may have fibromyalgia, they may have IBS or some other medical issues that make it difficult for them to manage everything.
Interviewer: Well I really appreciate your time today, that's the last question that I had.