Interviewer: So that's the last list that I have for you. How are we doing on time, do you have to run?
Interviewee: I'm okay, I sent actually an email just to say that I'm gonna be a few minutes late so if it's 10 minutes more I'll be okay.
Interviewer: Yeah, so let's have you tell me a little bit about your background just very briefly in terms of your training and how you see individuals with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Sure, so I'm a trained psychologist and social worker and I came to my work with hoarding actually through work with OCD first and then began working more with people with hoarding over time. I think based on my earlier experiences, some people found it very frustrating to work with people with hoarding, I more challenging but fascinating as well. So I kind of move in that direction and was much more [INAUDIBLE] kind of behavioral therapy training or ERP to start with back in the day before [INAUDIBLE] and [NAME] developed more specialized treatment and kind of moved more into that model. And then I've kind of expanded into multiple models in terms of thinking about various domains and working in housing and public health and other areas as well. So, have kind of like expanded out in that, but definitely come from a mental health background in terms of training.
Interviewer: So now I'd like to talk to you about the ways that you diagnose hoarding disorder, and specifically about the DSM-IV criteria. Please cut us off when you have to go and I'll follow up over email, and if we can find another time that's great, but I want to get as far as we can get but let me know when you're out of time, okay?
Interviewee: Yeah, no problem.
Interviewer: Okay. So, thinking about the DSM-IV criteria specifically, are there any aspect of the DSM-IV specifically off the top of your head that you regard as kind of difficult to apply or that you thought perhaps rely on clinical judgement or that you worry that different clinicians might apply differently?
Interviewee: That's a good question, I think the fact that acquisition is a specifier as opposed to one of the core criteria can potentially be, it's not difficult to use but at the same time I think that could be confusing to some in terms of how to apply it, especially in the community in terms of using it as opposed to kind of research focused. And also I think in terms of insight, where sometimes there's some confusion in terms of where some clients feel pushed against the wall so they'll seem reluctant or seem like they're not recognizing what the issue is, but there's a lot of shame and other experiences that they've had, so it's not really that they totally lack insight, but to actually...I don't want to say admit a problem but to like speak to it a certain way makes them feel like they're gonna have to comply with their things and it's scary in terms of having, what are their rights in that scenario or the dynamics of the family and so forth as well.Interviewer: So there's a whole conversation I'd like to have with you about insight and what exactly that means, and I'm not sure we're gonna have time for it today but it sounds like what you're saying is that a lot of times it may seem like an individual doesn't have insight because they're not admitting that they have a problem, but they may actually be more aware of their problem but just be unable to admit it because admitting it would kind of seem to push them to take some kind of action or to be judged somehow. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, and some people don't necessarily want mental health treatment, you know like in the case of I want to hold onto my housing. You know, "I'm not necessarily interested in mental health treatment, I want to hold onto my housing." So, that's very different from somebody who's in mental health care already in addressing the issue of insight. I guess when I'm thinking of insight I'm thinking around the DSM specifically, so I'm thinking about how do people kind of what do they say in terms of what do they recognize in terms of labeling and what accounts perhaps for that as well.
Interviewer: Right, right.
Interviewee: I think the other things is that, so there's comorbidity that come out with hoarding around depression, around OCD and so forth and I think that sometimes there's confusion in the field around that in terms of what is what. People are so focused on the clutter, what's secondary to... what's actually hoarding and what is secondary to other mental health or physical health problem. The other thing that comes up is issues around trauma, so how does trauma kind of fit in. So, you know, some of the comorbidity research shows that there's a low rate of PTSD. Folks I've met with will talk about a traumatic event, it doesn't mean that it's PTSD and there's some myths out there that trauma causes hoarding and the research doesn't really support that. So I think that can affect the diagnosing a bit and the issues around the criteria a bit in terms of the role of trauma.
Interviewer: Can you think of a challenging case where you were unsure if something was truly hoarding disorder or either another mental health disorder or something that's on the spectrum of hoarding behavior? Have you ever had that experience with a person who potentially had hoarding?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it depends sometimes on what our role is, right. So we talk about this in training a bit, we'll show people a picture and they're sure it's hoardingS. They're sure it's squalor and hoarding, and just because it looks like that in terms of clutter doesn't mean it's specific to the DSM criteria around hoarding, right. So, there could be a lot of reasons that there could be squalor or clutter in their environment that may not be specifically hoarding. Can you repeat your question again?Interviewer: Yeah, I was asking if you have had the experience of having a really challenging diagnosis where you were't sure if something was truly hoarding or was either another mental health diagnosis or something else entirely. Have you ever had that experience, and can you think of an example of a time where you were really unsure if something was hoarding or wasn't?
Interviewee: Yeah we had, just a quick one and then unfortunately I'm gonna have to run, I'm getting distracted because people are at my doorS, they keep coming back to my door every once in a while, so sorry about that. So, yeah I mean in one case there was a person who was, a lot of what they were collecting was like food wrappers and containers and so forth, and there were a lot of them in addition to other things, and it was hard to know whether it was hoarding or whether it was depression or if it was eating issues as well, and the way that at first the person was answering questions and based on conversation it seemed like they were having difficulty letting go of the papers and whatever the food came in, the containers and stuff. And then, but overtime, a pretty brief time, it became clear that actually it was the clutter that was attached to that and a number of other things that was really more related to the depression, and also some eating disorder issues as well. But you know, in terms of the specific items that they're holding onto and also in terms of how they were kind of answering the typical questions, it seemed it was hoarding but something kind of just didn't fully match, and so with more exploration and over time it became clear that the treatment specific for hoarding wasn't really a fit, it was more a need to address something in the mental health issues that were going on that were really more salient and the clutter was more secondary. So that's kind of just like a quick example of when it's come up, and sometimes it's kind of teasing it out of them as well.
Interviewer: Well I want to be respectful, I appreciate your time.