Interviewee: [NAME] obviously, yeah, I work for her and am part of her lab. I am a clinical technologist, so I am much more on the clinician side of things. I am involved in our research studies, but I'm definitely more knowledgeable about clinical practice, so you know I could speak to that and I could ultimately do my best to kind of represent the lab. Although I am definitely not the head of the different studies going on, although I do kind of know about them, so I'll be able to give you what I can.
Interviewer: Sure, yeah perfect. And again, you know, you might be tempted to say that you're not the right person to answer some of these questions, but I mean I think that you're--what the study is really aiming to get at is perception, so I think that'll be perfect. Just to give you a framing of what we're gonna do today, our interview has two sections. The first section uses a technique that's called free listing, and the idea behind free listing is, it's a little bit like a fluency test. We will give you a prompt and then we'll ask for you to give us off the top of your head a list that comes to mind. So an example of a prompt might be, "Could you please list for me all the animals that you can think of" and then you would go ahead and say, "Dog, cat, lion, tiger" and keep going until you can't think of any more. And the difference between this and a fluency test is that it's not timed at all, and we are most interested in what items you list and what order they're listed in, and we want to get an exhaustive list from you, so feel free to take your time. And the idea again is just to generate a list, so fairly short responses if possible.
Interviewee: Okay.Interviewer: Mhhm, mhmm. Okay, well I'm gonna move into the more conversational interview and we're gonna talk about a lot of the issues that came up in our list in more detail, but before we get started if you wouldn't mind just giving me like a...I don't know, two minute introduction to who you are and your training and background and how you came to be involved with patients with this disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, sure of course. So I'm a clinical psychologist and I am just out of my post-doc, so I pretty much [INAUDIBLE] last year, in the OCD and related disorders track and so that was specialized training in treating folks diagnosed with OCD and hoarding disorder [INAUDIBLE] primary to diagnosing that I focused on and um--but before then, so the reason I guess I can kind of share with you how I got there. So, in the beginning of my graduate school journey, I went to grad school in [INSTITUTION] in Portland, outside of Portland, Oregon and I was always interested in anxiety disorders in general and exposure therapy in particular and I knew that going into grad school and so I knew I wanted to get some training in that and when I was at [INSTITUTION] doing my grad school program, I basically I pursued those interests and it wasn't actually hoarding at that point, it was more like OCD and other social anxiety and disorders like that that I was primarily interested in, at first. And then I just joined a research team called The Anxiety Research Team where there was a vertical mentoring process happening, where some of the more advanced students were mentoring the kind of first and second year grad students and I was passed along some articles and I did some research projects around, more like lit reviews and small presentations for like community conferences or local conferences and things like that. But I started researching treatments for hoarding disorder, I guess at that point it wasn't even its own diagnosis yet when I first started grad school but for OCD and anxiety and I was pretty intrigued. I also found out during that time that those treatments really weren't available, so I think I got really passionate about really learning those treatments and learning how to provide those treatments well and being able to offer those treatments to the community, because so many people struggle to find services. I remember reading prolonged exposure for PTSD was the gold standard treatment, but yet nobody really [INAUDIBLE] and nobody really was offering it, not many psychologists provide exposure therapy in general, so I think I just became really passionate about learning about those treatments and specializing in those treatments. So, I got linked up to a community, essentially a private practice, but it was called The Anxiety and Panic Treatment Center in Portland, and I did my practicum, too, there and then I stayed working through clinical field work for the remainder of my grad training, in addition to doing other places because I enjoy it so much and I was learning quite a bit and I was doing work with folks with hoarding disorder as well as OCD and then I guess also other anxiety disorders, like panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, generalized anxiety disorder. There were two clinicians who kind of ran that clinic who were local experts and so I was able to learn a lot from them and also were able to provide people, in particular folks with hoarding disorder were able to provide in-home services. So, I was able to do in-home exposures and decluttering sessions with folks, whereas no one else in the community was doing that. So, we were like the only people in the Portland area who offered that service and it was really just me basically doing it for a while, or just the grad students basically, because we were able to offer a sliding scale and because we were more flexible we were able to actually go into the homes and do the exposures. So I got some experience there and I learned quite a bit from those experiences. I even was contracted or was, I don't know exactly, it wasn't official in that way but the county actually reached out to me and asked me to work with an individual who was threatened with eviction. And so the county, the county task force was also trying to find ways to solve kind of the public health problems that are associated with some individuals struggling with hoarding disorder. So I was kind of navigating that and learning about that and also at the same time trying to implement the CBT towards hoarding disorder, basically, in a couple of cases where I went out to people's homes. And form that I went to internship, which was at a VA and I didn't really do much with hoarding, I was more focused on PTSD, and then I kind of went to the post-doc at [NAME] lab and focused on supervising the various instructor's workshops that we have going. And then I did home decluttering and I did the in-home decluttering sessions myself with a couple of participants over several weeks, we did 10 sessions of in-home decluttering and then I also worked with some folks individually and I'm planning to eventually, I'm working in the clinic at [INSTITUTION] and I'm eventually hoping to start some hoarding [INAUDIBLE] or like CBT groups for hoarding so that's kind of my plan for the next year or two, is to try to get something set up there because of how limited the resources are and there just isn't a lot out there for folks struggling with this.Interviewer: Awesome, well I'm really excited hear your answers for our questions, given how much experience you've had actually treating patients in patients' homes. So the first question that I'm gonna ask, so the first thing that we're gonna do is talk about what constitutes hoarding disorder, so to start off thinking about that, how would you describe the most important differences between normal saving behaviors, such as collecting perhaps, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, good question. So, I think the really big difference, there's a couple key differences I think, a lot of people collect and I think...I can't remember what year it was but I don't remember the percentage but there was a study done in the UK and it showed like 25% of the population engaged in collecting. So, obviously collecting is distinct from difficulties that are associated with hoarding disorder. I think one reason is that when someone's collecting, they tend to be able to organize their collection and kind of store their collection away, so if they're collecting stamps or what have you, they're kind of organized and they have a home and then these folks tend to bring up these collections and they tend to show them off with pride, there's joy associated with them like, "look at these fans" or maybe find other people who are interested in that particular item and they may show these items with joy and pride; whereas folks who are struggling with hoarding disorder tend to experience a lot of shame. There aren't, the items aren't necessarily organized in that neat, nice structured fashion and they're not necessarily showing others with pride. There's actually a lot of shame and distress associated with the items. I think that's a key difference, and those are the primary differences, now that I'm thinking about it actually. Like the way in which they're stored, folks with hoarding disorder don't have these items stored away so they can bring them out and show people, and the feelings associated with it. So, kind of the feeling of pride when someone's showing off their collection, versus somebody who is ashamed and has negative emotion around having all of these items in their home.
Interviewer: Mhhmm.
Interviewee: So those are kind of the two primary.Interviewer: What for you, I mean, is it possible to have hoarding disorder and only to hoard certain kinds of objects the way that we might think of a collector? So, could you hoard, for example, cuckoo clocks or bird feeders, you know.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, definitely, I think you can. However, I think the difference is, like it's interesting that you mentioned cuckoo clocks because I've actually worked with an individual who loved cuckoo clocks and had several cuckoo clocks, but as we were doing our decluttering exercises, she was coming across one she hadn't seen in years and forgot she owned. So I think, you know, she loved cuckoo clocks and she had several, she even had one up on her wall actually; however, we were finding cuckoo clocks that she didn't even remember she had because they were lost in her clutter. And so, ultimately, you know, I think we could say she was collecting, and that was aesthetic, that was purely just loving cuckoo clocks and the way they look. And she loved Germany and she got several from Germany and things like that, so there might be some, maybe this can make it down to that sentimental value, too, so there might be some reasons why this person liked cuckoo clocks, but ultimately, yes I think that an individual can hoard one kind of item or a specific kind of item. However, I don't think it's limited to that. So like, this individual who loved cuckoo clocks also acquired a lot of other things, so it was more than just the cuckoo clocks and I think that's why this individual wasn't able to enjoy the cuckoo clocks in the way that someone who was just collecting them might, because she wasn't able to find them or retrieve them when she wanted to. Or even, you know, eventually folks might forget that they have some of these objects, right. So I think that with collecting, individuals mostly know like what items they have, they can pull them out and look at them.
Interviewer: Can you think of a specific case or cases that was challenging for you to diagnose? Either, for a bunch of reasons, because it was on the border between pathological or non-pathological?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.Interviewer: And could you just walk me through the outline of that case?
Interviewee: Yeah, I can think of maybe a couple of cases. I think where it can get tricky is that hoarding, or individuals who struggle with hoarding, tend to...or the traits tend to show up when they're relatively young, so like adolescent years. And I think that if someone is struggling early on, and they're not actually acquiring enough or having difficulties discarding enough where it's like resulting in clutter that's actually compromising their space or that's like a hazard, then according to the criteria, then it wouldn't be criteria for diagnosis. So, someone might be struggling with hoarding or acquiring objects excessively and might be struggling with discarding, but if they can still use all the spaces in their home, then that kind of puts you in a tricky spot. Because what if not giving this person the diagnosis means they don't get services; however, they don't meet diagnosis, so you can't give them the diagnosis because they don't have the clutter or the, if their home isn't compromised in that way and their space isn't compromised in that way, then you can't come up with a diagnosis at the level of significance where it would need a diagnosis. So that would be, you know, I actually haven't, the only place I've seen that come up is in our research study, because we're looking at folks who are a little less severe and because we don't, because or IRB, we're not seeing people who are being threatened with eviction or because we're going into the home, there can't be mold, there can't be...you know, clutter can't be stacked super high because of earthquake risk and things like that, and so we're actually seeing folks who do kind of fall in that line of is it actually hoarding disorder? Does this meet criteria? And I think for some folks we've had to say no it doesn't, because their home doesn't, the only thing they're saving is the revised inventory questionnaire, if it doesn't meet the threshold, like if they don't have that perceived need to save to the degree that causes impairment or causes distress, then we wouldn't diagnose. So I think taking a look at things like the savings inventory revised or the clutter image rating scale, having a person do those can help you see what actually, is this actually pathological as well as asking them more subjectively like what their home is like and what's their experience inside their home.Interviewer: And we're gonna talk through this criteria in a little bit more detail. I'm also wondering how you make distinctions, or if it's ever tricky to make distinctions between hoarding disorder and other possibly comorbid disorders, specifically depression and OCD. Do you ever have difficulty in kind of discriminating between a hoarding disorder patient and an OCD patient and a depressed patient?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, definitely. I think it's important to know, especially with OCD, to know OCD well and when you're--because of course hoarding, difficulty discarding possessions can definitely be a part of OCD, even now they could still be a part of OCD, even though hoarding disorder has its own separate diagnosis. So, I think being careful and when you're looking at differentiating between OCD and hoarding disorder, for example, making sure that hoarding is the primary issue and is basically what the person is struggling with can help you decide whether or not it's assumed as under OCD, as well as looking at some of these OCD-themed...like I've worked with folks, I worked with an individual who was diagnosed with OCD and not hoarding disorder, although had difficulties discarding, and not so much acquiring, it was more discarding. But that was because she was fearful of making a mistake and throwing something out that was important and that she would need, so we would check it several times and it was kind of consistent with her other checking behaviors, which she was also worried about catastrophe and fires and so she would check her door and check her stove, and so it was really consistent with the OCD presentations. So it fits in with the way that we were conceptualizing her OCD; whereas if that wouldn't have been the case, if hoarding was actually the primary issue, we would likely not have diagnosed, she wouldn't have gotten the diagnosis of OCD.
Interviewer: So in this case what seems to be the most important factor in making that distinction is not about their space, but it's about their reasons why they are saving. If they are more reasons that are more related to OCD behaviors or if they're true hoarding, yeah?
Interviewee: Right, right yeah. And I think um, and that could be, you know I guess this might be a questions in research, like how often does OCD and hoarding disorder, is that diagnosed. I've never diagnosed both and I don't know if there'd be a situation where you could argue that that could happen, but I've never actually diagnosed both and I think that because of the newer diagnosis and because it's related to OCD, you know, I guess technically you probably could diagnose both. I mean if you look at the why box on hoarding, I think it's still on there, although I don't know if that will change in the future or if we will continue to keep those items in OCD or look to separating the two more. I think that'll be a question for research and for a future study, like does that make sense and is it counterindicated or does OCD kind of explain a person's difficulties with hoarding, is it necessary to give them another label or not, and I guess what would prompt an individual to do that? But yeah, those are good questions.Interviewer: So I'm gonna ask you now just to talk through with me some of the diagnosis criteria. Before we begin, I just want to know if any of the elements in the criteria in the DSM-V you find particularly difficult to apply or subjective or that you wonder if different clinicians might apply differently? Does anything jump out to you from the DSM-V?
Interviewee: Yeah sure, sure. Yeah, I think that's a good question. I think ultimately the DSM runs pretty well, you know, that the heart of this diagnosis has to do with that perceived need to save and that difficulty upon attempting to discard, so that distress associated with discarding and that perceived need to save. I think that's at the heart of it and I think the DSM does outline that. I think the one criteria I might have some issue with, not necessarily issue with but might signify expanding upon is this idea that the home needs to be cluttered to a level where the spaces are compromised. I think that when we think about the internet and I already mentioned digital acquiring and difficulty discarding of digital items like individuals could be engaged in a lot of excessive acquiring of digital material and maybe also that also might be the difficulty discarding of digital material might actually be impacting someone in a negative way, right? It might actually be impairing their function and enjoyment in domains of their life, and that could be something that the DSM doesn't really talk about. If an individual is just--if their symptoms are just associated with digital clutter and acquisition and difficulty discarding, that would be something that the DSM doesn't address and it wouldn't be hoarding disorder, so you would have to try to, I mean I'm not sure what you would diagnose. And ultimately that could be one point issue.Interviewer: For that criteria, the difficulty discarding results in accumulation that congest and clutter and substantially compromise intended use, I wonder also if you think that external factors may play a role in that substantially compromising of intended use. For example, if somebody is very wealthy and lives in a extremely large home, versus somebody who lives in a trailer and has less space, is it possible to be so wealthy that you never compromise your intended...you know, your space's intended use because you have many storage units, for example?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah that's a really good question. I think that definitely could be possible and I think--or let's say someone, you have money and you're extremely wealthy and all your family does clean-outs or something like that, maybe somebody, not that I've heard many people sanction those or enjoy those to any degree, most people don't want that to happen. But if for some reason a person's space is not compromised because they have so much space or because there's been a forces clean-out or like family has been doing it, I think that that would be--those would be situations where yes, I think a diagnosis would be missed because their space isn't compromised right now, you know, even though it could be, eventually. Like let's say the person has so much space it could take many many years and maybe it would never get there so maybe it would never rise to that level of clinical significance in a way that the DSM writes. And I think that that's maybe the reason, actually in our lab the other day we were noticing that a lot of research and a lot of news articles about hoarding were coming out of the UK and we were hypothesizing about why that might be, and one thing thing that got brought up is that the UK, they tend to live in smaller spaces and I wonder if places like San Francisco of New York where people live in smaller spaces, if that might then just make the problem more salient.Interviewer: Right, right, right, cuz everybody just has less space to live, that's interesting. I also want to ask you about this idea of intended use. So we could imagine a healthy person who, for example, has a spare bed room that they use for storage, or doesn't cook and therefore doesn't use their kitchen for cooking, but instead uses it for storage. So I wonder how you think about this concept of compromising intended use. Like, who's intended use and how do you make judgments about whether that's appropriate or not?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, I think that's a really good question. When we think about intended use, I think it probably does kind of come from this, I guess societal, just in general what do we use a kitchen for, what was that designed for, when someone built that home, that apartment, they thought that you would be cooking in it. But, then again, that is not obviously taking the person's view point into consideration or like their own experience and their values and if they don't care about cooking or that's not something they ever want to do, you know, is that compromising the use? I think for the intended use, like the same thing can come up with OCD, for example, like if someone is fearful of starting a fire because of the stove, they might not use their stove or their kitchen for cooking whatsoever. It doesn't mean that it's cluttered, but they're still not using it and so the OCD has compromised the room's use, but then I've had people say, "Well I don't care about cooking, it has no value in cooking at all so I don't even want to work on that because that's not a value of mine," and so I could see how that could come up. I think with hoarding disorder what we think about is if someone moved or lived with a family member who wasn't struggling with hoarding or you know, or if we were to think about what is the typical use of a kitchen, to cook, or a bedroom to sleep, I think that even if an individual suggests that that's not how they intend to use it, I think the way we've looked at it is that intended use is more like the blueprint. Like what did the architect intend for this space to be used and how was that planned to be used or maybe even how did they plan to use it originally. Maybe when they first moved into the home they did a little bit of cooking, or maybe they ate at their table but now they're not eating. So, I think I do like to, especially when this is just clinical practice and not a research study, I do like to kind of obviously meet the person where they're at and if they don't care about the kitchen or they don't care about cooking, maybe they care about being able to host people in their living room and have a space for people to sit and enjoy the conversation or something like that. So, kind of looking at what uses or what are they not doing in their home that they would like to do, and then focusing on that, especially when we're looking at just treatment in a community setting and not like placing my own values on somebody. Like, kitchens need to be used for cooking and focusing more on that. But in terms of diagnosis, I know that's what we're talking about, it's an interesting question. There's a little bit of a bias in thinking that others should be using their homes in a specific kind of way.Interviewer: So, kind of along the same lines we can imagine for normal individuals a variance in how they like to keep their space. So for example, some people might love to have a very clear desk and only be able to work when the desk is clear; whereas other people might actually really like a crowded desk or feeling that their items are all around them, and I wonder if you've ever conceptualized or thought about hoarding disorder as being a part of that spectrum? So do you feel like perhaps a part of hoarding disorder is about liking the creation of inclosed space, or liking to be surrounded maybe on a spectrum like fear of open spaces, like the opposite or something like that where people just really like to be inclosed by items.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah actually that's a good point. Yeah, I think that that definitely could be the case. But I think that what's really important here if we're looking at diagnosing hoarding disorder, and actually all mental health disorders in general, I think this gets overlooked. That that last criteria, which is that like clinically significant distress and functional impairment, if the person likes it and they are not subjectively identifying any problems with their homes and yeah somebody from the outside is saying you need to do something, but they are not--so I guess if you have somebody saying, "you're going to be evicted" that is causing functional impairment and clinically significant distress because the state of their home is leading to them not having a residence, which then would cause distress and impairment. But if there wasn't, let's say they own their own home and the individual really does enjoy just having a lot of items around and there's some sort of safety or comfort that's associated with it and it's not actually getting in the way, like it's not impairing their ability to work or to be social or to do their hobbies or what have you, I think that that wouldn't be criteria for hoarding disorder.Interviewer: Right, so I guess that leads us really nicely into the next part of the interview because in the kind of next question is, you know, for this last criteria the difficulty is due to a perceived need to save and distress associated with discarding, I wonder how that is a part of the problem of insight. So, how does that distress manifest in somebody who just doesn't have insight into their disorder and how do you make a judgement as to whether they're not meeting criteria for hoarding disorder because they're not distressed, versus they do have hoarding disorder but they just don't have insight into the disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, that's a good question, I mean that's pretty hard, that's a hard call to make. I think ultimately I would look at if there isn't the distress, the subjective distress, I guess trying to find like is there impairment, is there functional impairment related to that perceived need to save and the difficulty discarding. So, if the person isn't impacted, if it isn't interfering even if the person is saying it's not really stressful or causing distress, but is it interfering to a significant degree and trying to speak or talk to the person about that. Like for example, one of the individuals I worked with who the county was threatening eviction, he didn't see any problem with his difficulty. He didn't experience distress, either related to that perceived need to save or the difficulty discarding. Well he did, but he didn't subjectively identify that as a problem, and so he had decided that there was distress when he was deciding to get rid of things, so he would keep them, and the excessive acquisition brought pleasure for him or it was something that he enjoyed doing, so the only piece that led to the impairment was someone from the outside saying that he had a problem. But they had power so they were the one threatening eviction, and so then even though he didn't have insight into his disorder, he didn't have insight into the difficulty. It actually had caused a lot of problems with his relationships, like he was estranged from his whole family but he didn't have insight that the hoarding was a part of that really, and so really the only area--he did agree with the fact that yeah this is causing distress and I will be impaired if I don't have a home to live in, I won't be able to do anything if I don't have a home, and so at that point, the diagnosis was still warranted because of the situation and because of the distress around that.Interviewer: Right, right. I'd like to quickly drill a little bit deeper into this concept of insight. So, as I'm sure you know, the literature surrounding hoarding disorder often describes hoarders as having low insight, and I'm wondering how you as a clinician define the term insight?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah that's a really good question. With insight I think how I determine insight is like the ability for an individual to recognize or yeah, to recognize that something is an issue or a problem, ultimately. So, this can come up in OCD a lot as well, you know, or this is actually another example that's related, like if someone is having relationship OCD or like is experiencing obsessions about their relationship, they might not see those thoughts as obsessive necessarily, because they might seem valid or warranted. Like, "Oh this person's bothering me, maybe I sue this person, that's something that I should actually consider." So, in that way a person with OCD might not recognize that that's actually OCD and we need to target that in treatment as OCD, and so if they're not going to conceptualize it as OCD, we can't do exposure therapy and we can't treat it in the way we treat other OCD symptoms. So it would be very similar with hoarding disorder, if someone is not seeing that the clutter is an issue and is not able to have insight into the way that it's impacting them, and I think that's ultimately what I think of insight, I think about there being a disconnect between like the consequences. Like I guess not realizing or understanding the consequences of the behavior, so that an individual doesn't actually see their difficulty discarding as leading to relationship issues or leading to issues with them working or doing their hobbies. Like there's that kind of lack of insight into the ways that the problems are impacting them, is kind of how I conceptualize it. I know that insight, and actually somebody on our team who's a psychiatrist and again I'm a psychologist, he approaches insight differently and I missed his talk but he was just talking about the brain structures and the ways that the research on insight in general on different psychiatric disorders and how the brain, you know, what circuits might be related to loss of insight or a lack of insight in different disorders.Interviewer: Interesting, interesting, it sounds like in your clinical practice most of the patients you see have fairly good insight, is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, fairly good insight in that they're either aware that there's some issue, there's some desire to, there's something happening that's bothering the individual, whether it's, "Oh I'm trying to get my taxes done and I have all these medical bills and in order to do that, I have to be able to sort through all my papers and discharge and I need to learn how to do that because there's so much distress associated with it right now." And so maybe there's not insight into all of the symptoms, or like a motivation to work on all of the domains in someone's life, but there might be in one area. So then we might work there and then we might work together to try to increase insight by just motivational interviewing type of technique. You know, I would never tell somebody that it's a problem, it's only a problem if it's a problem for that person, so it would just be highlighting some of the discrepancies that the individuals might bring up as related to the individual thinking its not a problem and just be kind of highlighting that it is a problem sometimes and having the person kind of sit with it not being a problem but it is a problem, like what does that mean? You know, and kind of talking to somebody to increase their insight would be something that we would do in therapy. But yeah, I think that on some level, most people that I see have some insight. The person that I worked with who had the least amount of insight, I think the reason the person was in treatment was because of the threat of evictions. Those are the hardest cases, because the person has absolutely no insight into the fact that the behavior is problematic and that there is probably distress and impairment in their life, you know there probably isn't going to be any reason to try to fix or do anything differently.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the patients that you see, they start gaining insight because there's some area in their life where they see this negative consequence, even if they don't see the whole picture, there's an eviction, or they're trying to do their taxes, or there's one thing or another that they feel is having a negative impact. And then your tactic is kind of to start there and to see if you can spread that self-knowledge to other domains that are also impacted. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yup, yup, exactly. And I think the other thing that goes into that is because most people don't seek treatment until like their 50s or like midlife, that if you think about the outcome of these symptoms that happen early, I think that one of the reasons is that it takes years for things to accumulate. Like it takes years and years and years for a lot of these folks to actually acquire enough to actually compromise living space. So I think that by the time we're seeing folks things are pretty severe.Interviewer: Yeah, so that was another question that I was going to ask you about, actually, you know because there does seem to be this disconnect that many people describe hoarding as starting at adolescence, but most hoarding patients, patients with hoarding disorder don't come into treatment until they're unfortunately middle aged or in middle age and I hear you saying that part of that is it takes them a while to acquire enough items to meet criteria. I wonder if you think that there could also be a social aspect to that trajectory, people's children moving out of their house or spouses either dying or leaving, do you feel like those social factors--or I mean, conversely, should we see hoarding perhaps as a progressive disorder that actually worsens with age? I wonder what your opinion is and where it kind of falls out.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, you know anecdotally and from what we know, I think I tend to see it as more of a progressive disorder that tends to become exasperated or get worse over time, in general. I think that doesn't mean that that's always the case, though I think that's where more research is needed in terms of the role of like a traumatic experience. I mean there's some cases where someone maybe wasn't struggling with those symptoms at all and then they're 35 or 40 and then something happened, like a trauma might happen or some sort of stressful life event, and then they develop difficulties with the acquisition and discarding and the disorder comes from that. I think that happens less than what I know about the research, however it does happen. And so that is interesting how for some people it starts kind of insidiously at a young age and then just kind of progressively becomes exasperated, but for others it might not even be there until later in life and maybe a hypothesis is maybe some sort of event, stressor, trauma basically triggers a disorder for some personal reason. So I think that there might be a couple of ways that people can develop.
Interviewer: Mhhm, so it might just be later in life, yeah. I'd like to return really briefly just to the concept of insight. So there was this patient published about insight in hoarding disorder that broke the concept down into different constructs, and I'd just like to read you the constructs and see if you think any of them are more or less salient based on your clinical experience. So the construct of insight that the paper described were first defensiveness, second was anosognosia or just a lack of ability to perceive an illness or that something is wrong causing distress, the third one was overvalued ideation, which was defined as a persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items that can range from mild to delusional in intensity, and the fourth one was indifference. So, again, we have defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation, and indifference, and I wonder if when you encounter patients that are having problems with insight, if you find one of those to be more common or more important?Interviewee: Yeah, good question, what paper, would you mind? I'm just curious and--
Interviewer: Yeah it was a paper I think it was by [NAME] and colleagues where they were examining these kinds of ideas, I can send it to you if you're interested in it.
Interviewee: Yeah I would love to read that, yeah. Okay I do have some thoughts about that. So, I think, I've thought a lot about overvalued ideation and the lack of an ability to perceive a problem, like just not seeing clutter as an issue or maybe not even being able to see the clutter, really or perceive that the space, to not be able to recognize the illness in that way I think that's kind of what we were talking a little bit about with insight before, that an individual just might not be able to see that there's a problem. And so I think that definitely comes up a lot, I've seen that with most folks, but definitely some in particular that one individual who was coming in because of the threat of eviction, I think there was a lack of an ability to see the problem, I think that was probably one of the most important pieces as well. I think a lot of the times overvalued ideation, like this idea. I think that comes up a lot and that comes up in that people have, I already kind of mentioned, "There's a specific way I have to discard of this item and it's so important that I do this in a very specific way and if not I'm a bad person," for example. And that thought becomes true, right, in that if this person doesn't discard in a specific kind of way, they're a bad person. So there's this maybe avoidance of discarding because they don't want to feel like a bad person. So I think the overvalued ideation comes up a lot and I think that can also come up in like generalized anxiety disorder and OCD as well, this idea that the symptoms are important, like "My rituals are important, I need to do my checking because if not I might murder somebody and I don't want to be responsible for that."
Interviewer: So like, they're really convinced that they have to do it or some terrible thing is going to happen to them.
Interviewee: Right, right, exactly, exactly, so there might be that same thing happening in hoarding disorder like, "I am convinced that I'm a bad person because I just contributed to this plastic thing in the ocean and maybe that means that these thoughts will never leave me, that I'm always going to feel like a bad person and that doing anything differently will just result in me getting stuck with all these thoughts and all these negative feelings and I want to make sure I do it right." And so a lot of times when we're doing like exposures for hoarding disorder, I think there is a bit of perfectionism in terms of overvalued ideation. There can be barriers to someone being willing to take a risk and throw away a plastic can in the trash and that can be something that someone is just not willing to do, and if that's the case then we can't do an exposure around it and we're kind of stuck, in a way, or we can become stuck if their overvalued ideation kind of prevents them from actually doing the exercises as related to the therapy.Interviewer: So I wonder, just to tease this out a little bit further, in both this idea of anosognosia or just not being able to perceive that the illness is a problem or even not being able to perceive the clutter, and also in overvalued ideation if you really believe that an item is valuable to the point that it's very unreasonable, that almost sounds like a little bit of a delusion kind of thing, you know. Like really not being able to perceive reality in a concrete way, really believing strongly in that a piece of paper or an empty can are just super super valuable or looking at a space that is unusable and you can't even walk in and just seeing no clutter. And I don't know, I guess I just kind of want to check with you and see if that's what you see with your patients, this kind of like almost delusional like lack of touch with reality or is it somewhere in between?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, I think it's a really good point and it's definitely come up within hoarding, it's come up with OCD. For example, like OCD can look sometimes like a psychotic disorder, for somebody endorsing some pretty strange beliefs and with some overvalued ideation around it that I think are the same thing, like you were mentioning with hoarding disorder like, "I need to save this for this reason" and there's this kind of fixed aspect to it, whereas it's just the way that it is, it's just right or wrong.Interviewer: Mhhmm, that inflexibility.
Interviewee: Yeah, so I think that does maybe overlap some. I think maybe the difference in hoarding disorder or anxiety disorder or OCD is that, at least from the folks I've seen, it's not as fixed I guess. The overvalued ideation is there, but there's like enough flexibility in most people to try things differently. Unless there's like a comorbid OCPD or something there and then that might make things harder and that might have more to do with the comorbid diagnosis interacting with the treatment. But I think if that isn't there and it's just some overvalued ideation related to that perceived need to save, I think I would look at how fixed are their beliefs and are there--is it that the person is just really scared and there's a lot of anxiety? That could be the case so that they think that might be the case, or is it just like 100% just the way that it is, there's no arguing it. And with a delusion you never argue a delusion anyway, but there's no approaching it in any way shape or form. Most people I've worked with will at least approach it and will talk about it like, "Oh yeah, I can see that's a strong value, I can see how I really think that I am contributing to the plastic thing in the ocean; however I'm also seeing that if I do this this way, I'm never going to be able to get through all these papers, you know, I'm never going to be able to do this if I do it 100% right all the time" so maybe there's some flexibility that's incorporated, even though I still strongly believe that I want to be an environmentally conscious person and I want to for the most part just try to think appropriately and recycle and then that's where I would see there's like some flexibility and it's not completely like, "I have to do it this way and we're not doing it any differently" and I think that might be one piece that might help.
Interviewer: Okay, I want to acknowledge that we're definitely at an hour, I have three more questions for you, do you mind sticking with it for three more questions?
Interviewee: Yeah, not at all, that's fine.Interviewer: Yeah, so these are kind of broad level questions about big issues in hoarding disorder. So, there's this, we talked a little bit about cultural forces associating perhaps consumerism or environmentalism, I want to kind of explore that a little bit more, you know, do you feel like there's a relationship in the patients that you've seen between having had experiences of scarcity or poverty in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Mhhm, yeah, good question. You know, anecdotally, I have had a couple patients talk about that and talk about that when they were younger or not having, yeah not having food or not necessarily having what they need, and so ultimately wanting to and kind of learning not to waste, right, talking about that sort of idea of like I shouldn't waste anything because there was a time that I didn't have anything and maybe in the future I might not have anything. Or like maybe something would happen, you know, like I'll need this and I'll be in hard times again. And actually one of the, like an interesting case example is, I can't remember his name, I think it was a Chinese artist who's mother struggled with hoarding, one second I'm just gonna look up the name of it. Oh, Song Dong, and so she was an artist and he grew up in China and his mother basically there was just like economic difficulties in China as he was--or as she was growing up, and so she learned basically to save and to not waste because of those difficulties, just in case that were to happen again. Like it was just kind of a value that she learned because of what was happening in society and that was a big part of her difficulty. It was rooted in her experience as a child and not having what she needed. I've heard that form many patients and not everybody for sure, but definitely some and there was this idea that, "I don't want that to ever happen again or at least I want to do what I can to prevent that from happening if I ever were in a situation where I didn't have what I needed." I don't see that that often, but I have seen it a couple of times.Interviewer: Yeah, kind of a related idea that there's been a little research about but not a ton is along the lines of kind of what you were talking about with sentimental value, and I'm wondering if you feel like there's a relationship between hoarding disorder and memory or patients' ideas about memories?
Interviewee: Mhhm, yeah, good question. I think that a lot of patients believe that I don't know, maybe for some it is the case that they do struggle with memory and maybe because of that executive function difficulty or problems, maybe there are some like cognitive developments. But I hear it a lot as just like a reason for keeping something, that "if I don't have this reminder, this cue, I won't remember." And I think I tend to challenge that in therapy, because I tend to ask people to test that out for themselves like are they sure they won't remember? What tells them they won't remember? Are they sure they have--like where is this coming from that they have this bad memory? I think it's almost like this fear that they'll forget, it's like this fear of forgetting, like if I don't have this cue then I won't remember this time or this person and that of course the object is a reliable cue for that memory. However, for a lot of these folks, when we're doing exposures, for example, they'll come across things they haven't seen and, you know, 10 years. And so ultimately they're not actually using the items that are a cue to remember. So I might reflect that as well, like it sounds like, and maybe even asking somebody like, "Have you thought about that memory in the last 10 years even without the cue of the item?" And I think that can be a way to get at whether or not they're actually [INAUDIBLE] or if they're difficulties with memory. I think that a lot of patients do believe, or that is a reason for why a lot of people have a perceived need to keep those items, is that they're fearful that they'll forget.Interviewer: So for this last question, this is again kind of like a conceptual question for you, we've talked a lot throughout the interview about reasons that people give for their hoarding behavior, and I'm wondering if for you, just in your own thinking about this disorder, if those reasons are true motivators or if they're kind of post hoc justifications for an underlying, perhaps, biological need. So, another way of asking this question might be to say, which comes first, the behavior and then they justify it by saying, "Oh the environment, oh I'm afraid of forgetting, oh I might use those" or are the thoughts actually driving the behavior?
Interviewee: Yeah, that's a really good question. Of course that would be a great research question, I don't--yeah I think that's hard. I think that from what I've seen, people when they're acquiring or having difficulty discarding, it does seem to really ring true to their values of whatever those things are. So if it's someone who cares about the environment, it does seem like in the moment when we're doing an exposure, that that really is what's happening. That the act of discarding this will make the person feel anxiety and a part of that might also be that there's maybe a biological vulnerability or sensitivity, just like all anxiety disorders, and that learning component. So maybe I'm more vulnerable to feeling a need to acquire and also more vulnerable to want to keep things because I feel like I want to remember, maybe I'm more of a sentimental person. So there might be some distress associated with thinking about getting rid of something, and then as a solution there might be this avoiding discarding, right. Like, "Oh I don't want to deal with that" so maybe it's an anxiety sensitivity thing or an emotional sensitivity thing. Like, I just feel more distressed than the average person when I think about discarding these things, so I avoid doing it. And maybe there might be some post hoc reasoning or rationalizing of it after the fact, so it might be a combination of the two. I think there very well could be, although I think in a way it's almost like the avoidance behavior of discarding leads to all the clutter, it's just kind of a way that people might learn to cope with the distress that's associated with the need to discard, given just the environment. Like if someone had a huge home and all the money in the world, there wouldn't be as much of a need to go through and to discard things, and so that might be a different situation. But the fact is that most people do need to find things and have trouble finding things and so there might be behavioral reasons why people avoid or cope with that that kind of lead in the long term to this trap. You can avoid discarding things for a while, but ultimately if you think of a bathtub that doesn't have a drain, it's just eventually gonna overflow and then that's just going to become even more overwhelming. And so that behavior worked in the short-run, maybe they avoided feeling bad for a while, they avoided that distress and now we're in a situation that's maybe much worse. So in a way it's almost like, the way I look at or conceptualize it, the way I like to conceptualize all maladaptive behavioral responses to an emotional problem is just that it's a solution, for the moment, it's usually a short-term solution that someone comes up with, like it's either from anxiety like you'd see some avoidance behavior, you know, "I'm just gonna avoid doing that or going to that place or looking through my items or discarding" but that only provides short-term relief because at the end of the day, the distress is still there. The person still experiences distress when thinking about discarding, and then they haven't discarded for 20 years and now the problem is just so much worse that the distress is just exacerbated and increased. So that's the way I tend to conceptualize it, is that its their learned behavior based on that biological vulnerability or that biological kind of maybe anxiety sensitivity or emotion sensitivity as it relates to in this case hoarding, or acquisition and discarding.
Interviewer: Well I really appreciate your time today, that's all the questions that I had.