Interviewer: Ok so, thanks with um meeting me, for meeting with me today.
Um, I working with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the kind of therapy that your child or children um have been, uh receiving at this clinic.
For this project we want to develop uh few short educational videos to describe what cognitive therapy… cognitive behavioral therapy is for children and their parents uhh so we want to get your information on this topic.
Um cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful so, throughout this interview I will be calling it CBT, for short.
So, to start um could you guys tell me what comes to your mind when you first think about CBT.
Interviewee: Challenges
Interviewer: Challenges
Interviewee: Challenges, yeah
Interviewer: Could you elaborate on that.
Interviewee: Um, challenging… doing things that you know um, challenging your child to do things that they feel uncomfortable doing so that they become more comfortable with um…different things like um touching gross things or… whatever.
Interviewee: Yeah I, I think about um very similarly the challenges that the child and the parent will face and the child being faced with something that’s gonna change the way they think.
You know
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: And that may… or may not always work just because someone gets the CBT therapy it doesn’t mean everything is going to be fine afterwards, you know.
It’s it’s changing the structure of the thought process and that’s always kind of a grey area.
Interviewer: hmmm, So that kind of goes into my next question of like how would you explain what CBT is, like the mechanisms, how does it work?
From your perspectives.
Interviewee: Well  [UNDERSCORE] for us it’s been um… more of like there’s a problem and then an idea is presented um… as a solution but in order to, the way its presented, in order to really receive that idea as a change the patient, the child has to be willing to accept the fact, like I was saying, that they are going to change um and kind of come up against their own selves in a way.
So it’s almost like they have to decompartmentalize and detach themselves from whatever the problem is and then learn to face it and hopefully overtake it but that’s um that’s very difficult yeah, hard thing to do so and you hope for a good outcome in the end.
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: I agree but I’ve also… I’m coming to realize know to think that maybe it’s not just a therapy, it’s uh it’s a lifestyle change, you know that it is something like, that we will always be doing you know, even throughout life I’m sure he is going um run across obstacles and you know sometimes things are gonna become more challenging throughout life and um you know, I just think it’s… it’s a life style change, and kind of becoming aware of how you perceive obstacle, I guess.
Interviewer: So, it sounds like the two of you are really emphasizing the change component
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: mmmh
Interviewee: Yeah.
And I’m a little bit new to it.
I haven’t, we haven’t been through a whole lot yet, but just of what we have, yeah that’s something that cause I think that when your child is giving a diagnosis that’s it’s gonna be a lifelong diagnosis and the therapy it’s not like you go for a few weeks and it’s done.
Interviewee: and it’s over and it’s cured.
I don’t think that, I think it gets better for sure, it becomes manageable and then I think... I’m sure like I said they go through life they might have flare ups or whatever and that they will hopefully learn the skills to be able to...
Interviewee: Because life is crazy.
Interviewee: deal with these things.
Yeah
Interviewee: You don’t know what s gonna come each day each hour…
Interviewee: Right
Interviewee: and they have to be, right, prepared.
Interviewee: And also have to be self-aware, aware like oh well now’s the time I need to  [UNDERSCORE] those skills you know….
It’s hard.
Interviewer: Right… So the goal of CBT at least in this context probably is to reduce anxiety or at least be able to live with the anxiety umm if someone asked you how anxiety became a problem is someone’s life how would you respond?
Like what information will be important for other potential patients to know.
Interviewee: On how to recognize or…
Interviewer: However, I mean whatever you believe would be important to kind of know about anxiety coming about, becoming something that is uh problematic that needs to be uh challenged.
Interviewee: I think one of the biggest things that knowing that it can either stand alone as a diagnosis or it can also be  [UNDERSCORE] a from another diagnosis.
And you know things that can kind of interweave that um and to know that it can manifest itself in so many different ways you know it’s not like, oh you have this kind of rash, you have chicken pox.
You know, it’s it’s that’s pretty black and white or you have  [UNDERSCORE] , its so many like greys and just you know everything from sleeplessness you know, I wonder if somethings wrong they can’t sleep, to um appetite being affected, you know friendships, all kind of things.
So I think it’s important for people to know that it can either stand alone or it can be so involved in other diagnoses and um the best thing to do is to be aware and educate themselves as much as possible on how it can be a broad spectrum.
Interviewer: Anything you’d like to add to that?
Umm  [UNDERSCORE] what’s the question again?
Interviewer: Sorry, so it’s a bit of a complicated one um, what’s you know when anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life?
Like what should people know in terms of how to address that, is there anything in particular that’s really important for individuals?
Interviewee: That it, I mean, I feel like that you don’t ignore it or you know you don’t just think oh well it’s just a passing thing I think you um… I think umm… I don’t know… we’d just do the best you can, I guess in trying to address it.
And not let it get worse.
Interviewer: Could you guys tell me about from your perspective um certain areas that CBT really targets or skills that it builds?
Kind of going off this discussion of kind like how anxiety can become very impairing like it can stem, it can manifest itself in many different ways.
Interviewee: Um that’s a little hard, I guess just because I am at a point where I haven’t seen that yet.
LAUGH
Interviewer: Sure, sure
Interviewee: Um I’m hoping it will teach self-awareness and the um the ability to really kind of recognize … one’s own thought and feeling and then hopefully understand the appropriate behavior that needs to follow or not follow as a result of that and what’s and keeping appropriate for the setting if that makes sense, but um that’s what we hope for him and that they don’t let anything come to debilitating in their life and to also recognize when to they need to reach out for help.
To recognize when maybe a line been crossed and ok I need to say something, you know
Interviewee: Like they are slipping and they do reach out and or you know be able to reign it in somehow.
Interviewer: So, I kind of want to go back to the first time you learned about CBT, and um what context was that, was it here, was it elsewhere?
When did you first here about CBT?
Interviewee: I first learned about it, we are down here from [LOCATION], we live in [LOCATION], umm I am a neurologist up there umm spoke about and we were recommended to a therapist that was practicing it and then from there we were recommended to a therapist that specialized um specifically using habit reversal 
Tourette, and um we drove to [NAME] in [LOCATION] and started doing some pretty intensive therapy over there and that ultimately led to diagnosis of OCD and that led us down here so it’s kind of been like one thing after another, but I’d say our neurologist in [LOCATION] was the first time I’ve ever heard about this and that was probably… I don’t know maybe three, three four years ago maybe the first we kind of heard of.
Interviewee: Um Probably in college I mean as far as very loosely I mean, I heard of it because I had been a psych major prior to going to nursing school but, um but it wasn’t, I really didn’t know what it was about until we started therapy.
Interviewer: When you first heard about it were there any questions that you had about CBT, and if so what where they?
Interviewee: Umm…I needed some specifics you know, I really didn’t know anything about it umm….
The doctor just kind of loosely, you know talked about it but it wasn’t enough for me to really feel like  [UNDERSCORE] so I did some research on it.
I didn’t really umm… I though ok this seems cool you know, I hope it’s helpful you know for people but I just that was about it and I thought you know we will see if the proof is in the pudding.
Interviewer: Do you remember what you’re a doctor was saying about CBT the first time you were speaking with them, does anything come to mind in terms of ?
Interviewee: I just remember him saying that and this may have been more about habit rehearsal therapy which kind of falls under the umbrella right of CBT.
That is was a newer type of therapy the habit rehearsal and that it was a type of therapy use that did not involve medication and that it was a new thing that not many people knew how to do it but more people were learning.
It was really catching on and um that’s all I really remember.
You know, not a whole lot from him, yeah.
Other than he highly recommended it.
Interviewer: And you also mentioned research as well.
Interviewee: I just when I say research, I just mean I like went on the internet.
I was like alright what does  [UNDERSCORE] actually mean, how long has all this been around.
I watched a couple of videos of people doing habit rehearsal therapy for Tourette’s syndrome.
Umm they were I think filmed in England  [UNDERSCORE], they were both filmed in England the one I saw.
Umm and it was interesting, just to get an idea.
I was like what exactly am I going to put my child through.
Interviewer: Right, right.
Did you have similar experiences in terms of like how doctors recommended or for your child or anytime you looked up what CBT was all about?
Interviewee: Um I did do research on the internet just like what you did.
Um no, I mean… I guess… I… It just it seems to be pretty intuitive It sort of like a desensitization you just, you know, you become desensitize to things you exposure yourself to so, I thought and I heard that there was a lot success so the thing that really you know concerns me is that my child is so young so will he have the ability you know to have the insight into you know doing this type of therapy.
So…that’s been hard.
Yeah, it’s been hard.
Interviewer: Well were there, in terms of this experience um have there, I know you are on different levels in terms of how long your child has been on CBT, but has there been anything confusing or anything that been like you weren’t expecting?
Interviewee: I expected to learn a lot of new things, you know expected, I kind of expected the unexpected, I guess.
Um maybe because I just wasn’t familiar with it and just kind of did the basic in looking into it, but no I guess I really can’t say anything that was perfectly unexpected not yet, we still little ways to go.
Interviewee: Nothing so unexpected, I just know there is a lot frustrating I feel sometimes um that I, I don’t, I’m sure other parents feel the same way, I don’t know but… it it is wearing.
It can wear on you, you know.
Interviewer: Are those things, um I’m sorry.
Interviewee: No, no it’s ok
Interviewer: I was gonna say are those um for future parents coming in, bringing in their children for CBT like what you would want say to do them about this experience like what to expect?...
Like what things do you, alternatively, what things do you wish ere explicitly told?
Interviewee: Maybe that um you know it’s not like a switch just gets flipped and everything is ok.
Interviewer: more of a process.
Interviewee: Yeah it’s a process.
Interviewee: It’s it’s the beginning, like what you were saying earlier, of a process that is going to transcend throughout their lives.
Um that there is a lot more that I would have to I think have to be involved with then I initially realized as a parent, it’s really for us too.
So like I’m learning and having to take notes and having to do these exercised at home.
You know after we leave here each day and probably will have to continue I don’t even know how long, So I really did not know that part was coming then again I wasn’t sure.
So yeah I think letting parents know that you will have to be daily involved in the sessions, but also the work at home.
You know, kind of be prepared to be present physically, mentally, and emotionally throughout the whole process more so than maybe you initially might think.
Interviewee: That’s true, I agree with that very much yeah.
I didn’t expect there to be some much involvement either on my end.
I knew there would be, but you know you really have to train yourself.
Oh here’s a moment, here’s uhh you know, instead you have basically fallen into these habits that you have to break and that you’ve been doing for so long and you got form these new habits you know recognize when an opportunity is arising and sometimes you just you know life gets in the way, and you are busy, and you have other children, other things going on and it’s hard to sometimes to bring all that together.
Interviewee: I think, I think with having other children that’s one of the biggest challenges, yeah for me too.
Your child has sibling you just can’t 24/7 hone in on that one child unfortunately it’s just not realistic whether they need it or not you can’t, you’re a mother you have to care for all you know.
That’s tough.
Interviewee: it’s tough.
It’s really hard
Interviewee: It is….
So I think maybe letting people know that… don’t be afraid to ask for or arrange for help ahead of time maybe before going through the program because you know it can be kind of intense while you are in it and if you have other children you may need friends or grandparents or other family whoever might be able to just be around, just to add that extra help to a whole family unit, I certainly think it will be very beneficial.
Interviewee: yeah that’s a good idea.
Like bringing the family into it like more so that the siblings can ok this, kind of help get involve.
Interviewee: Sure, yeah
Interviewee: You know so that it, I don’t know.
Interviewee: And I also wondered too as far as siblings go like, they kind of do need to know what’s going on if they are of the right age, because then if they are just wow wow they have fallen on those traps too, they are like wait a second why is everyone doing something different you know and I haven’t necessarily been on this or maybe I was briefly quickly told something in the car, hey we are going to start doing this from now on, you know or whatever and that’s very important that they don’t feel left out, plus that they are fully engaged and can also help with the whole  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: Right
Interviewer: Very much like a family system.
Interviewee: Absolutely.
It affects every single person.
Interviewee: True
Interviewer: Do you, any either of you have any friends or family that have gone through similar experience or have gone through CBT before to your knowledge?
Interviewee: Not that I know of
Interviewer: Not that you know of.
Do you, have you ever recalled seeing anything about CBT in popular media, like in shows, or movies, or in books?
Interviewee: Umm, I don’t know.
I don’t know.
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t recall.
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: Ok
Interviewee: “As good as it gets”, but he really didn’t go through therapy he just started.
I don’t know if you have seen that movie.
Interviewer: Oh was that a movie.
Interviewee: Uh?
Interviewer: No, I haven’t seen that movie.
No. Interviewee: No, anyways, Jack Nicholson.
Interviewee: I remember that movie.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Yeah, he as OCD and he finally was realizing it, and he went finally go get therapy and he busted into the office, but they really didn’t do  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: mmmh, with Greg Kinnear
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah
Interviewee: Yeah I remember that.
Interviewer: So one question that we’ve been asking is um if you could have three words that describe what CBT is, what would those words be?
…. Three words.
Interviewee: That’s hard
Interviewee: Well, I think challenge is one cause’ we always, we gotta challenge ourselves.
It’s our big thing.
Interviewee: I guess I was thinking more of three consecutive words that mean, that could go together but my first thing that really made sense that came to my head was like reformed thoughts and behavior and it seems like a process of learning to reform and retrain and I’m not really settling on three words, am I.
Interviewer: No, no those are three words.
Just the first three words that kind of just come to your head for that.
Interviewee: Reform, or retrain.
Really reform I think, thought and behaviors, because that’s kind of what’s happening hopefully.
Interviewee: I guess for us is you know challenge yourself.
Umm push past the anxiety and do it anyway cause’ if you don’t it will just get worse.
Interviewer: Maybe not necessarily for your specific  [UNDERSCORE], but like when you think really broadly of CBT, is there anything that pops out in your head, that just comes in your head and you’re like that’s what I think of.
Interviewee: Controlling your thoughts and behaviors.
Interviewer: So like control.
Interviewee: mmmh.
Interviewer: Control…..
So like challenge, fight control, and then reform thoughts behaviors.
OK, do any like pictures come to mind when you think of those things or broadly CBT, like do you have an image in your head?
Interviewee: No, my only image so far is really just my child sitting in the office or us sitting or speaking, but I guess if we were to think beyond that….
I don’t know….
I got conjure up something….
Do you have any images?
Interviewee: Of CBT?
I don’t know just hand washing standing in front of the sink, I don’t know.
Interviewer: Yes, more of an abstract concept, you know.
Interviewee: yeah, in the abstract concepts…
Interviewee: It’s almost like um having to reinvent the wheel because the wheel is there, and you have to have it function like the wheel, its gonna have to do the job of a wheel, but it can’t necessarily have that same shape the wheel has always had and move the same way the wheel has always moved.
So we are gonna have to come up with a new way, a reformed way how are we going to take this object which is the brain of the person and we are going to help it get to the same end goal and may be work around and function slightly differently so we can get there and not get hung up.
Umm, so that’s kind if the first logical thing that comes to mind, I guess for me is reinventing the wheel in some way.
Interviewer: That’s a good piece of imagery too, the wheel.
Interviewee: Yeah, I’m just not that creative, honestly.
Interviewee: That’s ok
Interviewee: I just can’t think of any images as far as that goes.
Interviewer: Yeah I mean it’s a very abstract concepts.
You know, cause’ it’s kind of like why we are curious of these words like how they, how they imagine it cause’ a lot of times it might just be your personal experience comes to mind.
Interviewee: Right which can be a little different for each person.
Interviewer: So, as I said in the beginning the main purpose of this is to develop some videos basically for CBT for parents and for kids.
So, I have a few questions about that that I would like to go over um so keep in mind that these videos are geared technically towards individuals 10-16 year olds, but also their parents too which is why we want the feedback from both groups regarding what these videos should be.
Um so, in terms of the characters, who should be in the video?
Who should star and who should be speaking in these videos.
Interviewee: I would think the star would be a child that has already gone through the program and is like I’m here to tell you what you need to know.
You know, because I’ve been through it and I’m a kid and I can speak your language.
Interviewee: Right, or more than one kid like you know just.
They don’t have to actually I mean, I guess they would be like actors or something, but you know I mean… cohorts.
Interviewee: Yeah, like different children that have different diagnoses like one could be like you know I have OCD and anxiety, you know one could have Tourette’s and OCD or you know um
Interviewee: Right, like these are my hang ups, these are my issues and how they can vary and how they overcome them.
Interviewer: Right, so depicting like really individualizing it, and really depicting it, Yeah that’s a very important component.
Interviewee: But something that you know anybody coming into the program can relate to, something from one of these characters.
You know at least.
Interviewer; Do you think there should be um parents in these videos at all?
Interviewee: I don’t think so.
Interviewer: You don’t think there as essential.
Interviewee: I would think yeah, but maybe not as like… the starring feature of the film, but I think to have maybe them sitting with their child in the office, you know what I mean or something, so they know that the parents are gonna have to pretty much be with you umm the whole time you know, but maybe not as the main star.
Yeah I would think the parent should be present because that’s what it is when you are here.
Interviewee: You are very involved, that’s true… But who is this, who is the audiences?
Interviewer: So the audience would be 10-16 year olds to start with and the parents as well.
Interviewee: Oh ok yeah
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: Well I don’t know I would probably do two separate ones you know
Interviewer: For each of…
Interviewee: for each… yes exactly
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: Kids their perspective, parents see the parent’s perspective
Interviewer: Oh so do one for kids and one for parents.
Interviewee: Right
Interviewer: Ok
Interviewee: That’s not a bad idea.
That’s a very good idea.
Interviewee: it’s because kids I think they would listen more if it was their personal story, you know, rather than oh moms there duh, they are like, I don’t know.
I just feel like that would work.
Interviewer: So in the parent video would that, who would be starring in the parent video?
Would it be parents?
Interviewee: It would be their perspectives and what they’ve gone through and… what their involvements are going to be so they can speak with the parents you know.
Interviewer: So other than the things we have on here um just curious on your thoughts um superheroes, do you think that’s something that kids would like to see in these types of videos?
Interviewee: I think the younger kids would I don’t know for the older the 16 year olds.
I don’t know.
I don’t have a 16 year old yet so I don’t know......
They might think its cheesy…
Interviewee: Mines a 11, my sons 11 that’s in this and I mean he likes superheroes, but I don’t feel like that would a good way to try and relate with him imaging children older maybe not so much, but yeah, maybe younger.
That I would say for that age group… I wouldn’t unless yeah, I wouldn’t
Interviewer: How about um any other non-human characters like animals?
Pets?
Interviewee: There’s always you know ways to make animals kind of cute or cool you know to target that audience whether it be a dinosaur or however you dissolve it
or interject it but….
I don’t know.
Interviewee: I don’t know to me to think even you know my child would… I don’t know… I don’t think, it would lack seriousness somehow they would it wouldn’t be it wouldn’t hit… It wouldn’t be as personalized you know I thing, buts that I don’t know because I’m not a kid and I don’t know.
I feel like they would relate more to other kids than superheroes or you know um pets.
Interviewee: I almost think of imagery as far as cartoons go like, I think of like taking you know cartoon brains and cartoon hearts while they are showing the kids sitting there you know, like maybe they will do it an outline of the brain or something and then show something sweet happening to it or maybe show something difficult happening to it and then something sweet happening to it, like maybe it’s up against a brick you know in a hard place or a rock in a hard place you know, and then maybe show in time we are gonna show you how to and the brick turns to sand you know [UNDERSCORE].
I think of things also, I think of things that show like ways to heal the heart because they feel, these kids feel so much and they don’t want to be like this, you know.
So I think more as far as cartoon imagery is going that’s like the first thing that popped in my mind more than animals or superheroes.
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: I mean you can incorporate that if you want, but I think they can see oh wow like that brain is having a hard time, my brain has a hard time you know.
Once they go through this oh look it’s happening to the brain, you know what I mean they’re  [UNDERSCORE] I think that would touch them more.
Interviewer: Right so going into that we actually have um three categories of um options that we are playing with right now in terms of the style choices.
So we have this line art which is basically kind of those types of videos where you’d have those illustrations that can be happening during the video basically and being able to draw things out so that first  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: I kind of like that
Interviewer: You like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, I do because I think you can do a lot with that as far as the chaos that’s going on in their mind you could really illustrate that you know sometimes a conflict.
Interviewer: Right, the second choice we have is vector art which is um more limited in terms of like the cartoony style um which I think is a style that you would see commonly a lot on those explain YouTube videos they have kind a like approach as well.
And the then last one is um kind of looking more at a comic art style which kind of relates to also  [UNDERSCORE] what we were discussing superheroes as well as having some more of these this type of, the picture is probably describe it better than I could um in terms of like the coloring um.
Between these three, is there a style that stands out to you?
Interviewee: This one.
Interviewer: The line art.
Interviewee: Hands down.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so too.
Interviewee: Definitely not the third one.
Interviewer: Definitely not the third one.
Interviewee: Throw that one away.
Interviewer: Throw that one away…
Do you think that’s something that’s um would be maybe dependent on the kid’s age?
Interviewee: It certainly could, but I don’t know the first thing I think of is kind of like what you said earlier it’s like um you know are we taking this seriously or are we making fun of it, or what are we doing here.
It’s confusing and very stimulating and like I don’t know.
That’s just not…
Interviewee: It’s like you’re almost, like you’re almost being dumbed down like you feel like it.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Like you’re not taking it seriously.
I see what you are saying.
Interviewee: I don’t know as an adult I know how it makes me feel and I’m thinking for a child that’s yeah I don’t.
My son would probably be like are they trying to make fun of like this is weird, why are they doing this.
I think it would confuse him.
Yeah, that’s just me I like this the best.
Interviewer: Awesome!
Um in terms of a setting, do you guys have an idea on where they should talk?
So you have places at home, we have school, a doctor’s office, you have the outdoors, anything else like what kind of comes to mind?
Interviewee: Like what settings?
Interviewer: Yeah like what setting?
It could be one setting, it could be multiple settings.
What are your thoughts on um what we should do in terms of that?
Interviewee: Multiple settings, like what would occur in their daily lives like school would be a part of it you know like these little things can show the little thoughts going on in their head as they are confronted with different things you know that might bother them through the day um, and I mean um like for my son you know recess what would happen during recess maybe something might you know disturb him there or just I don’t know.
Interviewee: Well maybe extracurricular things like if they are involved in sports or music after school you know because certainly that’s the end of the day and that’s when everybody symptoms are getting worse even..
Interviewee: Oh yeah when they are coming home from school.
Interviewee: Homework, it’s like the armpit of the day.
Um so yeah maybe extracurriculars, sports um other than that or whatever they happen in ballet class or whatever happens in the other three mentioned.
I can’t imagine anything else that would really be um maybe from a Tourette syndrome standpoint trying to be quiet in a quiet place like a movie theatre, church…
Interviewee: Library.
Interviewee: Library, yeah um you know a play, a planetarium.
These are all real challenges for these kids because they can’t just.
Interviewer: Do you think there should be a central location like if should be centralized in one place or another because I’m curious in terms of the because we obviously have the doctor’s office when you come here for therapy, but as you alluded to throughout there are always challenges going on and these symptoms and their fear of all these different domains of um children’s lives?
Interviewee: I think it’s great that if you just show like a... like a shorten version of a day in their actual lives like what they are doing outside of the office because what you are essentially doing is here you are giving them skills on how to deal with their issues in their life, in their world on a day the day bases so if you just, it’s like a day in the life of you know a child.
You know, getting up, getting ready for school, getting to school, doing school.
I mean you don’t have to get all involved just a little clips you know.
Interviewee: So now I think of it like similar, but um where maybe being the office is kind of like the center or what would be in the middle of the video and so you show some examples of what life is like having some of these disorders
school or whatever problems and then you show the imagery of here and then you show more positive imagery, like first the beginning might be a little slightly negative you know that image of the brick against the brain you know and then here it’s a cotton ball or whatever happens some of those similar images turn positive after their experience here.
That’s kind of the flow I see, but I’m not in this field so I don’t know anything about it.
LAUGHS
Interviewer: Well of course, that’s obviously why we are asking…
Interviewee: I know nothing about it, but that’s just kind of if I were imaging it if I were to… That’s kind of how I would want to see it.
Interviewee: Or even running across the same thing but dealing with it differently you know like being able to…you know...if they run across an obstacle and then they come across that same obstacle but they’re able the…
Interviewee: Like show the obstacle in the beginning and show it after and then show…
Interviewee: how they change…yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah, and how to deal with that.
Interviewer: For things like that and I guess for general too and for talking about CBT and like how it works what would you guys say should be spoken about or talked about?
…… So for an example, should they find out about the CBT explanation of how anxiety works?
Interviewee: Should they be shown?
Interviewer: Or shouldn’t be
Interviewee: Oh into a
Interviewer: video
Interviewee: video
Interviewer: in one way shape or another.
You’re not...
You’re shaking your head.
Interviewee: I would think just mention it because if you are at the point where you are looking up coming to this program, you already know about anxiety, you already know about OCD, you already know about Tourette’s, you already know about all the other things that you’ve already been there.
You just want to know or are we going to deal with these diagnoses, are we…is this going to be covered under what you are doing.
I personally wouldn’t think you need to go into any great explanation
Interviewer: about how
Interviewee: of any of these diagnoses.
Interviewee: That may take away from or
Interviewee: Yeah cause’ I think, I would imagine the point they are saying is ok you are going to need to go here, you already know what you are dealing with at that point, it is not brand new you know.
Interviewer: How well in terms of how the therapy combats the anxiety?
Are there things that need to be discussed about how that looks, what that looks like?
Interviewee: umm Maybe let them know that they may have to…and again I don’t know how far it is gonna go because for we just started week two, but they are gonna have to face some of their fears.
I mean I wouldn’t word it so that it scares them because it might turn some kids away, but umm be prepare to learn to stand up to, stand up to your fears more you know
Interviewee: And how it makes you stronger
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: and your fears weaker.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: That they are going to have to be brave, you know when they come here.
Interviewer: Should there be discussions about how it worked for other kids?
Interviewee: I think so.
Interviewer: Yeah, especially I think if you are discussing or having prior individuals who moved on through therapy kind of discussing it.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so.
Interviewer: How much if we do take that route, how much of their story should be discussed cause’ I’m curious about a contrast between the story of the kids who have gone through vs the potential the viewer and what it might look like as you see, as you both have alluded to it very much depends on each kid, so?
Interviewee: What was the um…what was the nucleus of that question?
LAUGHS I’m sorry, say that again.
I lost you.
Interviewer: um its ok, I lost myself as well.
Um doing how its worked for other kids and how maybe having kids speaking about their own experiences vs having it more about the person viewing it and how they can relate…
Does that make sense?
Interviewee: I think, yeah.
I think um maybe…maybe that character and it could be more than one could be a real child’s story and then somehow in the end that child might say my name is blah bablah and not their real name obviously.
You know, my name is and I’m so happy that I was able to go through whatever because I have blah bablah and they helped, I don’t know.
That’s all I can really thing of maybe using an example of a real person um
Interviewee: Or even if just made up an example and just gave them a name.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: Even though everyone’s story and everyone’s experience is going to be a little different.
Just a couple of examples of you know
Interviewee: the common themes like the common um maybe something that you know a lot of kids are dealing with, OCD you know, I don’t know if its perfectionism or…
Interviewer: Contamination
Interviewee: Contamination, yeah exactly yeah.
Interviewee: Or you won’t stop until you get it just right.
Interviewee: Right… If you use some of those, a few of those really common themes you know and just maybe show one kid from each.
Interviewer: like show the variety and how we talked about how it presents itself in different ways.
Um so we talked about how you don’t think that its necessary to really talk about like what anxiety is, um do you think its worth talking about explicitly at least for the children how exposures really work and how they…?
Interviewee: I think very delicately.
Interview: Delicately.
Interviewee: Because you don’t want to scare them.
Interviewer: Could you elaborate on that on what you mean delicately, like to you what does that look like to you?
Interviewee: Well I’m just thinking about my son like I know the things that are some of his greatest fears/phobia type things coming into this and just with the mention of exposure therapy with him, he became very uncomfortable which is normal I guess you know, so um I don’t think you wanna make the anxiety greater.
Interviewee: You don’t want to scare them off.
Interviewee: You don’t want to scare them off.
You don’t want to make their anxiety skyrocket when they are like you know oh my god, I’m afraid of sticky things and they are going to make me touch something sticky you know by exposure therapy so I think if you bring that into it find a way to do it gently.
Interviewer: Gently for exposure therapy…..
What were you thinking?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I mean yes because kids, at least little kids, don’t always wanna do something because they know its best for them, they want to avoid it.
They are like oh that sounds bad I don’t want to do that, no.
Interviewer: Right, how would you say it in terms of I think ultimately the thing that we end up doing here a lot of times in therapy is doing as you say facing their fears, so I’m kind of curious in terms of how to relay that message to kids about you know finding that sweet spot of not wanting to scare the kids off, but at the same time that is the essence?
Interviewee: Maybe if you focus on the triumph you know…
Interviewer: Focus on triumph.
Interviewee: Like so if you show the kid that they... that this used to bother them, but then they’ve been challenged and overcame these greater challenges and now look they don’t even think about it.
They are just doing it, you know.
Interviewer: Makes sense.
Interviewee: and more of a story form rather than ok this is what we do, we are going to do the grossest stuff and you know I mean just show it like show it in a story form.
Interviewee: Yeah there is, I think there is a sweet spot there.
Um you know I think using words like you are going to have to be brave, you are going to have to pull your bootstraps up, and you are going to have to be a big kid or you know things like that, that hint at hmmm this may not be that easy, you know.
I’m gonna have to do something that is a little bit of work, but they’re not really sure exactly what it is but there is that slight hint of  [UNDERSCORE].
But the reward is so great that alright I’m gonna put my big boy pants on or whatever you know.
But um yeah I think big words like that, be brave, be strong umm it’s gonna be worth it.
Interviewer: So you think…
Interviewee: It’s gonna be worth it in the end.
I think just so you are not tricking them, but you are not putting it all out there either.
Interviewer: So definitely not everything out there.
We do not want be extremely explicit.
Interviewee: Because I think for kids that have OCD that if they think they are going to have to either or probably already anxious in their mind about coming here um and then if they are thinking they may face their fears that’s just going the skyrocket the anxiety… and makes those compulsions just really go crazy.
Interviewer: How do you think we were discussing earlier potentially of having a kid in the parent video?
Would that look different in the parent video in terms of the message that would be given there?
Because it seems right now we are talking about the kid video we really want to talks about the benefits of therapy and how you succeed and triumph but hint at the idea that these thing are going to, you are going to have to face your fears.
Interviewee: It is going to take work
Interviewer: Right.
It’s going to... for the parent videos?
Interviewee: Practice… Well it will take some practice on behalf of the kids and I think for the parents you can pretty much put it out there like this is hard.
You are going to have to... it’s a challenge.
Interviewer: So be more explicit.
In that sense be more explicit.
Interviewee: Yeah, so it’s like warning you are going to have to roll your sleeves up.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: So is there a way of doing that in which you don’t scare off the parents?
Interviewee: Umm I don’t think you can… scare off the parents because you have to do it.
You have to I mean what are you going to do?
Not do it.
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: I mean… just oh well that’s too scary I’m not, that’s too much work.
I’m not going to do it.
My kid is not that worth it.
No, you are going to do it, you know.
You have to but at least you know, you know.
Interviewer: Yeah ok.
That makes a lot of sense and talking about um the parent video um one option we had was talking about what parents can and can’t do to help.
Is that something that should be discussed in these videos?
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: What they can and can’t do to help like while we are here?
Or…
Interviewer: Probably in terms of like interacting with your child, what’s useful?
What’s not useful?
Interviewee: I think that’s good….
Because I feel like a lot of times we do exactly the opposite of what we should do.
We coddle them.
Its ok you’ll be fine...umm
Interviewee: ‘I’ve learn a lot of things that I was doing yeah that were just completely counteractive and I was like…
Interviewee: Umm I don’t know what you think
Interviewee: But as a mother you tend to just yeah.
Maybe just let them know that be prepared to break some habits.
Be prepared for um some of your basic ideas of parenting maybe challenged, you know because it does.
Things you thought all along you know you are making it better.
Yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah you do not want to make it better.
It’s like the opposite.
Like you… It might make you sick I don’t know.
Interviewer: Having embracing what you are learning through therapy.
Yeah, definitely.
I do want to go back briefly to when we talked about the parent video um in terms of we mentioned having if there was a parent focused video, the parents would probably be the stars of those.
Would you also want kids in there for the parent videos?
And like how would that look?
Interviewee: I would maybe um… would these be cartoons or totally definitely?
Interviewee: Don’t, for parents.
Interviewer: Well I guess that’s the question too.
For parents, if we are doing a parent style video would you have a preference between like these?
Interviewee: Um…
Interviewer: or like  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: I mean yeah.
I think you know one of these is ok for the parent also but…
Interviewer: The line art?
Interviewee: Yeah but um I mean I would want to maybe see interviews of actual patients if they were willing to…
Interviewer: For that
Interviewee: If they are willing to do it and their parents you know for the families that have gone through it and just kind of talk about their story briefly.
I would want to see that.
Interviewer: Anything to add.
Interviewee: Umm no I just think it’s going to be adults.
We do not need to get all fancy.
They just want the information
Interviewer: information, right.
Interviewee: You know
Interviewer: So, um overall take home message of the video, if you had to really concisely sum it all up in terms of what absolutely should be in the video, what should that be?
Interviewee: Umm
Interviewee:  [UNDERSCORE] …. Probably that you know um expect you are going to come in here with problems, expect a challenge, except hard-work, and hope that the outcome is you know a smoother, a more easily operating mind of a child.
You know that there’s been significant resolution to a problem that it isn’t just let’s go to out appointment and go back to our normal day.
That it’s going to be a lot of work for everybody.
Interviewee: Yeah that’s like you know… like it’s a lifestyle change.
It’s how I view it.
It’s just an everyday, every you know… and it does get better, it does get better, buts it never I don’t feel like it’s ever been perfect like oh we’re cured know lets be done, we’re done, we do not have to do this anymore.
I feel like we still do it.
Interviewer: It’s ongoing.
Interviewee: It’s ongoing… to a lesser degree hopefully.
Interviewer: Ok um is there anything talking about CBT and videos for CBT that I’ve missed or you feel like it’s important to mention that we haven’t gone over already?
Interviewee: I can’t think of anything.
I feel like we covered…
More than I ever expected…
Interviewee: Yeah I feel like we covered from my experience so far yeah.
Interviewer: Ok is there anything that came up with you that you want to mention at all?
Interviewer2: There was one part in the beginning where both of you were talking about how don’t be afraid to ask for help um when it comes to kind of like warning others about how hard CBT could be and I just wrote what do you mean by help like in terms of like babysitting in terms of like…
Interviewee: I think in any way you can get support for your family um because when you have a child that is going through something like this the attention that they need is kind of all-consuming, and um you can’t… if you have other children it does become more difficult to kind of evenly distribute your attention to them so by having any help whatsoever from family or friends while you are kind of going through just be it to… umm maybe just help take some load off by helping at home, you know fixing a dinner or taking a couple of the children off to playdates, or um even just being there as someone to bounce ideas off of.
I think just that overall physical and emotional support.
Interviewee: Or to even reinforce the things that you are trying to accomplish like you know if they see their grandmother let them in on it, and say this is what we are dealing with now and if you could react this way you know and deal with this type of manner you know reinforce how you what you are taught in therapy, how to a deal with a situation and you that is also um helpful.
Interviewee: Yeah definitely.
Interviewer2: That was all
Interviewer: That was all?
Interviewer2: Yeah