Interviewer: Ok so, thanks with um meeting me, for meeting with me today.
Um, I working with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the kind of therapy that your child or children um have been, uh receiving at this clinic.
For this project we want to develop uh few short educational videos to describe what cognitive therapyģ cognitive behavioral therapy is for children and their parents uhh so we want to get your information on this topic.
Um cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful so, throughout this interview I will be calling it CBT, for short.
So, to start um could you guys tell me what comes to your mind when you first think about CBT.
Interviewee: ChallengesS
Interviewer: Challenges
Interviewee: Challenges, yeah
Interviewer: Could you elaborate on that.
Interviewee: Um, challengingģ doing things that you know um, challenging your child to do things that they feel uncomfortable doing so that they become more comfortable with umģdifferent things like um touching gross things orģ whatever.
Interviewee: Yeah I, I think about um very similarly the challenges that the child and the parent will face and the child being faced with something thatÆs gonna change the way they think.
You know
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: And that mayģ or may not always work just because someone gets the CBT therapy it doesnÆt mean everything is going to be fine afterwards, you know.
ItÆs itÆs changing the structure of the thought process and thatÆs always kind of a grey area.
Interviewer: hmmm, So that kind of goes into my next question of like how would you explain what CBT is, like the mechanisms, how does it work?
From your perspectives.
Interviewee: Well  [UNDERSCORE] for us itÆs been umģ more of like thereÆs a problem and then an idea is presented umģ as a solution but in order to, the way its presented, in order to really receive that idea as a change the patient, the child has to be willing to accept the fact, like I was saying, that they are going to change um and kind of come up against their own selves in a way.
So itÆs almost like they have to decompartmentalize and detach themselves from whatever the problem is and then learn to face it and hopefully overtake it but thatÆs um thatÆs very difficult yeah, hard thing to do so and you hope for a good outcome in the end.
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: I agree but IÆve alsoģ IÆm coming to realize know to think that maybe itÆs not just a therapy, itÆs uh itÆs a lifestyle change, you know that it is something like, that we will always be doing you know, even throughout life IÆm sure he is going um run across obstacles and you know sometimes things are gonna become more challenging throughout life and um you know, I just think itÆsģ itÆs a life style change, and kind of becoming aware of how you perceive obstacle, I guess.
Interviewer: So, it sounds like the two of you are really emphasizing the change component
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: mmmh
Interviewee: Yeah.
And IÆm a little bit new to it.
I havenÆt, we havenÆt been through a whole lot yet, but just of what we have, yeah thatÆs something that cause I think that when your child is giving a diagnosis thatÆs itÆs gonna be a lifelong diagnosis and the therapy itÆs not like you go for a few weeks and itÆs done.
Interviewee: and itÆs over and itÆs cured.
I donÆt think that, I think it gets better for sure, it becomes manageable and then I think... IÆm sure like I said they go through life they might have flare ups or whatever and that they will hopefully learn the skills to be able to...
Interviewee: Because life is crazy.
Interviewee: deal with these things.
Yeah
Interviewee: You donÆt know what s gonna come each day each hourģ
Interviewee: Right
Interviewee: and they have to be, right, prepared.Interviewee: And also have to be self-aware, aware like oh well nowÆs the time I need to  [UNDERSCORE] those skills you knowģ.
ItÆs hard.
Interviewer: Rightģ So the goal of CBT at least in this context probably is to reduce anxiety or at least be able to live with the anxiety umm if someone asked you how anxiety became a problem is someoneÆs life how would you respond?
Like what information will be important for other potential patients to know.
Interviewee: On how to recognize orģ
Interviewer: However, I mean whatever you believe would be important to kind of know about anxiety coming about, becoming something that is uh problematic that needs to be uh challenged.
Interviewee: I think one of the biggest things that knowing that it can either stand alone as a diagnosis or it can also be  [UNDERSCORE] a from another diagnosis.
And you know things that can kind of interweave that um and to know that it can manifest itself in so many different ways you know itÆs not like, oh you have this kind of rash, you have chicken pox.
You know, itÆs itÆs thatÆs pretty black and white or you have  [UNDERSCORE] , its so many like greys and just you know everything from sleeplessness you know, I wonder if somethings wrong they canÆt sleep, to um appetite being affected, you know friendships, all kind of things.
So I think itÆs important for people to know that it can either stand alone or it can be so involved in other diagnoses and um the best thing to do is to be aware and educate themselves as much as possible on how it can be a broad spectrum.
.
Interviewer: Anything youÆd like to add to that?
Umm  [UNDERSCORE] whatÆs the question again?
Interviewer: Sorry, so itÆs a bit of a complicated one um, whatÆs you know when anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life?
Like what should people know in terms of how to address that, is there anything in particular thatÆs really important for individuals?
Interviewee: That it, I mean, I feel like that you donÆt ignore it or you know you donÆt just think oh well itÆs just a passing thing I think you umģ I think ummģ I donÆt knowģ weÆd just do the best you can, I guess in trying to address it.
And not let it get worse.
Interviewer: Could you guys tell me about from your perspective um certain areas that CBT really targets or skills that it builds?
Kind of going off this discussion of kind like how anxiety can become very impairing like it can stem, it can manifest itself in many different ways.
Interviewee: Um thatÆs a little hard, I guess just because I am at a point where I havenÆt seen that yet.
LAUGH
Interviewer: Sure, sure
Interviewee: Um IÆm hoping it will teach self-awareness and the um the ability to really kind of recognize ģ oneÆs own thought and feeling and then hopefully understand the appropriate behavior that needs to follow or not follow as a result of that and whatÆs and keeping appropriate for the setting if that makes sense, but um thatÆs what we hope for him and that they donÆt let anything come to debilitating in their life and to also recognize when to they need to reach out for help.
To recognize when maybe a line been crossed and ok I need to say something, you know
Interviewee: Like they are slipping and they do reach out and or you know be able to reign it in somehow.Interviewer: So, I kind of want to go back to the first time you learned about CBT, and um what context was that, was it here, was it elsewhere?
When did you first here about CBT?
Interviewee: I first learned about it, we are down here from [LOCATION], we live in [LOCATION], umm I am a neurologist up there umm spoke about and we were recommended to a therapist that was practicing it and then from there we were recommended to a therapist that specialized um specifically using habit reversal 
Tourette, and um we drove to [NAME] in [LOCATION] and started doing some pretty intensive therapy over there and that ultimately led to diagnosis of OCD and that led us down here so itÆs kind of been like one thing after another, but IÆd say our neurologist in [LOCATION] was the first time IÆve ever heard about this and that was probablyģ I donÆt know maybe three, three four years ago maybe the first we kind of heard of.
Interviewee: Um Probably in college I mean as far as very loosely I mean, I heard of it because I had been a psych major prior to going to nursing school but, um but it wasnÆt, I really didnÆt know what it was about until we started therapy.
Interviewer: When you first heard about it were there any questions that you had about CBT, and if so what where they?
Interviewee: UmmģI needed some specifics you know, I really didnÆt know anything about it ummģ.
The doctor just kind of loosely, you know talked about it but it wasnÆt enough for me to really feel like  [UNDERSCORE] so I did some research on it.
I didnÆt really ummģ I though ok this seems cool you know, I hope itÆs helpful you know for people but I just that was about it and I thought you know we will see if the proof is in the pudding.
Interviewer: Do you remember what youÆre a doctor was saying about CBT the first time you were speaking with them, does anything come to mind in terms of ?
Interviewee: I just remember him saying that and this may have been more about habit rehearsal therapy which kind of falls under the umbrella right of CBT.
That is was a newer type of therapy the habit rehearsal and that it was a type of therapy use that did not involve medication and that it was a new thing that not many people knew how to do it but more people were learning.
It was really catching on and um thatÆs all I really remember.
You know, not a whole lot from him, yeah.
Other than he highly recommended it.
Interviewer: And you also mentioned research as well.
Interviewee: I just when I say research, I just mean I like went on the internet.
I was like alright what does  [UNDERSCORE] actually mean, how long has all this been around.
I watched a couple of videos of people doing habit rehearsal therapy for TouretteÆs syndrome.
Umm they were I think filmed in England  [UNDERSCORE], they were both filmed in England the one I saw.
Umm and it was interesting, just to get an idea.
I was like what exactly am I going to put my child through.
Interviewer: Right, right.
Did you have similar experiences in terms of like how doctors recommended or for your child or anytime you looked up what CBT was all about?
Interviewee: Um I did do research on the internet just like what you did.
Um no, I meanģ I guessģ Iģ It just it seems to be pretty intuitive It sort of like a desensitization you just, you know, you become desensitize to things you exposure yourself to so, I thought and I heard that there was a lot success so the thing that really you know concerns me is that my child is so young so will he have the ability you know to have the insight into you know doing this type of therapy.
SoģthatÆs been hard.
Yeah, itÆs been hard.Interviewer: Well were there, in terms of this experience um have there, I know you are on different levels in terms of how long your child has been on CBT, but has there been anything confusing or anything that been like you werenÆt expecting?
Interviewee: I expected to learn a lot of new things, you know expected, I kind of expected the unexpected, I guess.
Um maybe because I just wasnÆt familiar with it and just kind of did the basic in looking into it, but no I guess I really canÆt say anything that was perfectly unexpected not yet, we still little ways to go.
Interviewee: Nothing so unexpected, I just know there is a lot frustrating I feel sometimes um that I, I donÆt, IÆm sure other parents feel the same way, I donÆt know butģ it it is wearing.
It can wear on you, you know.
Interviewer: Are those things, um IÆm sorry.
Interviewee: No, no itÆs ok
Interviewer: I was gonna say are those um for future parents coming in, bringing in their children for CBT like what you would want say to do them about this experience like what to expect?...
Like what things do you, alternatively, what things do you wish ere explicitly told?
Interviewee: Maybe that um you know itÆs not like a switch just gets flipped and everything is ok.
Interviewer: more of a process.
Interviewee: Yeah itÆs a process.
Interviewee: ItÆs itÆs the beginning, like what you were saying earlier, of a process that is going to transcend throughout their lives.
Um that there is a lot more that I would have to I think have to be involved with then I initially realized as a parent, itÆs really for us too.
So like IÆm learning and having to take notes and having to do these exercised at home.
You know after we leave here each day and probably will have to continue I donÆt even know how long, So I really did not know that part was coming then again I wasnÆt sure.
So yeah I think letting parents know that you will have to be daily involved in the sessions, but also the work at home.
You know, kind of be prepared to be present physically, mentally, and emotionally throughout the whole process more so than maybe you initially might think.
Interviewee: ThatÆs true, I agree with that very much yeah.
I didnÆt expect there to be some much involvement either on my end.
I knew there would be, but you know you really have to train yourself.
Oh hereÆs a moment, hereÆs uhh you know, instead you have basically fallen into these habits that you have to break and that youÆve been doing for so long and you got form these new habits you know recognize when an opportunity is arising and sometimes you just you know life gets in the way, and you are busy, and you have other children, other things going on and itÆs hard to sometimes to bring all that together.
Interviewee: I think, I think with having other children thatÆs one of the biggest challenges, yeah for me too.
Your child has sibling you just canÆt 24/7 hone in on that one child unfortunately itÆs just not realistic whether they need it or not you canÆt, youÆre a mother you have to care for all you know.
ThatÆs tough.
Interviewee: itÆs tough.
ItÆs really hard
Interviewee: It isģ.
So I think maybe letting people know thatģ donÆt be afraid to ask for or arrange for help ahead of time maybe before going through the program because you know it can be kind of intense while you are in it and if you have other children you may need friends or grandparents or other family whoever might be able to just be around, just to add that extra help to a whole family unit, I certainly think it will be very beneficial.
Interviewee: yeah thatÆs a good idea.
Like bringing the family into it like more so that the siblings can ok this, kind of help get involve.
Interviewee: Sure, yeah
Interviewee: You know so that it, I donÆt know.Interviewee: And I also wondered too as far as siblings go like, they kind of do need to know whatÆs going on if they are of the right age, because then if they are just wow wow they have fallen on those traps too, they are like wait a second why is everyone doing something different you know and I havenÆt necessarily been on this or maybe I was briefly quickly told something in the car, hey we are going to start doing this from now on, you know or whatever and thatÆs very important that they donÆt feel left out, plus that they are fully engaged and can also help with the whole  [UNDERSCORE].
Speaker 1: Right
Interviewer: Very much like a family system.
Interviewee: Absolutely.
It affects every single person.
Interviewee: True
Interviewer: Do you, any either of you have any friends or family that have gone through similar experience or have gone through CBT before to your knowledge?
Interviewee: Not that I know of
Interviewer: Not that you know of.
Do you, have you ever recalled seeing anything about CBT in popular media, like in shows, or movies, or in books?
Interviewee: Umm, I donÆt know.
I donÆt know.
Interviewee: Yeah, I donÆt recall.
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: Ok
Interviewee: ōAs good as it getsö, but he really didnÆt go through therapy he just started.
I donÆt know if you have seen that movie.
Interviewer: Oh was that a movie.
Interviewee: Uh?
Interviewer: No, I havenÆt seen that movie.
No. Interviewee: No, anyways, Jack Nicholson.
Interviewee: I remember that movie.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Yeah, he as OCD and he finally was realizing it, and he went finally go get therapy and he busted into the office, but they really didnÆt do  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: mmmh, with Greg Kinnear
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah
Interviewee: Yeah I remember that.
Interviewer: So one question that weÆve been asking is um if you could have three words that describe what CBT is, what would those words be?
ģ. Three words.
Interviewee: ThatÆs hard
Interviewee: Well, I think challenge is one causeÆ we always, we gotta challenge ourselves.
ItÆs our big thing.
Interviewee: I guess I was thinking more of three consecutive words that mean, that could go together but my first thing that really made sense that came to my head was like reformed thoughts and behavior and it seems like a process of learning to reform and retrain and IÆm not really settling on three words, am I.
Interviewer: No, no those are three words.
Just the first three words that kind of just come to your head for that.
Interviewee: Reform, or retrain.
Really reform I think, thought and behaviors, because thatÆs kind of whatÆs happening hopefully.
Interviewee: I guess for us is you know challenge yourself.
Umm push past the anxiety and do it anyway causeÆ if you donÆt it will just get worse.
Interviewer: Maybe not necessarily for your specific  [UNDERSCORE], but like when you think really broadly of CBT, is there anything that pops out in your head, that just comes in your head and youÆre like thatÆs what I think of.
Interviewee: Controlling your thoughts and behaviors.
Interviewer: So like control.
Interviewee: mmmh.
Interviewer: Controlģ..
So like challenge, fight control, and then reform thoughts behaviors.
OK, do any like pictures come to mind when you think of those things or broadly CBT, like do you have an image in your head?
Interviewee: No, my only image so far is really just my child sitting in the office or us sitting or speaking, but I guess if we were to think beyond thatģ.
I donÆt knowģ.
I got conjure up somethingģ.
Do you have any images?
Interviewee: Of CBT?
I donÆt know just hand washing standing in front of the sink, I donÆt know.
Interviewer: Yes, more of an abstract concept, you know.
Interviewee: yeah, in the abstract conceptsģInterviewee: ItÆs almost like um having to reinvent the wheel because the wheel is there, and you have to have it function like the wheel, its gonna have to do the job of a wheel, but it canÆt necessarily have that same shape the wheel has always had and move the same way the wheel has always moved.
So we are gonna have to come up with a new way, a reformed way how are we going to take this object which is the brain of the person and we are going to help it get to the same end goal and may be work around and function slightly differently so we can get there and not get hung up.
Umm, so thatÆs kind if the first logical thing that comes to mind, I guess for me is reinventing the wheel in some way.
Interviewer: ThatÆs a good piece of imagery too, the wheel.
Interviewee: Yeah, IÆm just not that creative, honestly.
Interviewee: ThatÆs ok
Interviewee: I just canÆt think of any images as far as that goes.
Interviewer: Yeah I mean itÆs a very abstract concepts.
You know, causeÆ itÆs kind of like why we are curious of these words like how they, how they imagine it causeÆ a lot of times it might just be your personal experience comes to mind.
Interviewee: Right which can be a little different for each person.
Interviewer: So, as I said in the beginning the main purpose of this is to develop some videos basically for CBT for parents and for kids.
So, I have a few questions about that that I would like to go over um so keep in mind that these videos are geared technically towards individuals 10-16 year olds, but also their parents too which is why we want the feedback from both groups regarding what these videos should be.
Um so, in terms of the characters, who should be in the video?
Who should star and who should be speaking in these videos.
Interviewee: I would think the star would be a child that has already gone through the program and is like IÆm here to tell you what you need to know.
You know, because IÆve been through it and IÆm a kid and I can speak your language.
Interviewee: Right, or more than one kid like you know just.
They donÆt have to actually I mean, I guess they would be like actors or something, but you know I meanģ cohorts.
Interviewee: Yeah, like different children that have different diagnoses like one could be like you know I have OCD and anxiety, you know one could have TouretteÆs and OCD or you know um
Interviewee: Right, like these are my hang ups, these are my issues and how they can vary and how they overcome them.
Interviewer: Right, so depicting like really individualizing it, and really depicting it, Yeah thatÆs a very important component.
Interviewee: But something that you know anybody coming into the program can relate to, something from one of these characters.
You know at least.
Interviewer; Do you think there should be um parents in these videos at all?
Interviewee: I donÆt think so.
Interviewer: You donÆt think there as essential.
Interviewee: I would think yeah, but maybe not as likeģ the starring feature of the film, but I think to have maybe them sitting with their child in the office, you know what I mean or something, so they know that the parents are gonna have to pretty much be with you umm the whole time you know, but maybe not as the main star.
Yeah I would think the parent should be present because thatÆs what it is when you are here.
Interviewee: You are very involved, thatÆs trueģ But who is this, who is the audiences?
Interviewer: So the audience would be 10-16 year olds to start with and the parents as well.
Interviewee: Oh ok yeah
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: Well I donÆt know I would probably do two separate ones you know
Interviewer: For each ofģ
Interviewee: for eachģ yes exactly
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: Kids their perspective, parents see the parentÆs perspectiveInterviewer: Oh so do one for kids and one for parents.
Interviewee: Right
Interviewer: Ok
Interviewee: ThatÆs not a bad idea.
ThatÆs a very good idea.
Interviewee: itÆs because kids I think they would listen more if it was their personal story, you know, rather than oh moms there duh, they are like, I donÆt know.
I just feel like that would work.
Interviewer: So in the parent video would that, who would be starring in the parent video?
Would it be parents?
Interviewee: It would be their perspectives and what theyÆve gone through andģ what their involvements are going to be so they can speak with the parents you know.
Interviewer: So other than the things we have on here um just curious on your thoughts um superheroes, do you think thatÆs something that kids would like to see in these types of videos?
Interviewee: I think the younger kids would I donÆt know for the older the 16 year olds.
I donÆt know.
I donÆt have a 16 year old yet so I donÆt know......
They might think its cheesyģ
Interviewee: Mines a 11, my sons 11 thatÆs in this and I mean he likes superheroes, but I donÆt feel like that would a good way to try and relate with him imaging children older maybe not so much, but yeah, maybe younger.
That I would say for that age groupģ I wouldnÆt unless yeah, I wouldnÆt
Interviewer: How about um any other non-human characters like animals?
Pets?
Interviewee: ThereÆs always you know ways to make animals kind of cute or cool you know to target that audience whether it be a dinosaur or however you dissolve it
or interject it butģ.
I donÆt know.
Interviewee: I donÆt know to me to think even you know my child wouldģ I donÆt knowģ I donÆt think, it would lack seriousness somehow they would it wouldnÆt be it wouldnÆt hitģ It wouldnÆt be as personalized you know I thing, buts that I donÆt know because IÆm not a kid and I donÆt know.
I feel like they would relate more to other kids than superheroes or you know um pets.
Interviewee: I almost think of imagery as far as cartoons go like, I think of like taking you know cartoon brains and cartoon hearts while they are showing the kids sitting there you know, like maybe they will do it an outline of the brain or something and then show something sweet happening to it or maybe show something difficult happening to it and then something sweet happening to it, like maybe itÆs up against a brick you know in a hard place or a rock in a hard place you know, and then maybe show in time we are gonna show you how to and the brick turns to sand you know [UNDERSCORE].
I think of things also, I think of things that show like ways to heal the heart because they feel, these kids feel so much and they donÆt want to be like this, you know.
So I think more as far as cartoon imagery is going thatÆs like the first thing that popped in my mind more than animals or superheroes.
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: I mean you can incorporate that if you want, but I think they can see oh wow like that brain is having a hard time, my brain has a hard time you know.
Once they go through this oh look itÆs happening to the brain, you know what I mean theyÆre  [UNDERSCORE] I think that would touch them more.
Interviewer: Right so going into that we actually have um three categories of um options that we are playing with right now in terms of the style choices.
So we have this line art which is basically kind of those types of videos where youÆd have those illustrations that can be happening during the video basically and being able to draw things out so that first  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: I kind of like thatInterviewer: You like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, I do because I think you can do a lot with that as far as the chaos thatÆs going on in their mind you could really illustrate that you know sometimes a conflict.
Interviewer: Right, the second choice we have is vector art which is um more limited in terms of like the cartoony style um which I think is a style that you would see commonly a lot on those explain YouTube videos they have kind a like approach as well.
And the then last one is um kind of looking more at a comic art style which kind of relates to also  [UNDERSCORE] what we were discussing superheroes as well as having some more of these this type of, the picture is probably describe it better than I could um in terms of like the coloring um.
Between these three, is there a style that stands out to you?
Interviewee: This one.
Interviewer: The line art.
Interviewee: Hands down.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so too.
Interviewee: Definitely not the third one.
Interviewer: Definitely not the third one.
Interviewee: Throw that one away.
Interviewer: Throw that one awayģ
Do you think thatÆs something thatÆs um would be maybe dependent on the kidÆs age?
Interviewee: It certainly could, but I donÆt know the first thing I think of is kind of like what you said earlier itÆs like um you know are we taking this seriously or are we making fun of it, or what are we doing here.
ItÆs confusing and very stimulating and like I donÆt know.
ThatÆs just notģ
Interviewee: ItÆs like youÆre almost, like youÆre almost being dumbed down like you feel like it.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Like youÆre not taking it seriously.
I see what you are saying.
Interviewee: I donÆt know as an adult I know how it makes me feel and IÆm thinking for a child thatÆs yeah I donÆt.
My son would probably be like are they trying to make fun of like this is weird, why are they doing this.
I think it would confuse him.
Yeah, thatÆs just me I like this the best.
Interviewer: Awesome!
Um in terms of a setting, do you guys have an idea on where they should talk?
So you have places at home, we have school, a doctorÆs office, you have the outdoors, anything else like what kind of comes to mind?
Interviewee: Like what settings?
Interviewer: Yeah like what setting?
It could be one setting, it could be multiple settings.
What are your thoughts on um what we should do in terms of that?
Interviewee: Multiple settings, like what would occur in their daily lives like school would be a part of it you know like these little things can show the little thoughts going on in their head as they are confronted with different things you know that might bother them through the day um, and I mean um like for my son you know recess what would happen during recess maybe something might you know disturb him there or just I donÆt know.
Interviewee: Well maybe extracurricular things like if they are involved in sports or music after school you know because certainly thatÆs the end of the day and thatÆs when everybody symptoms are getting worse even..
Interviewee: Oh yeah when they are coming home from school.
Interviewee: Homework, itÆs like the armpit of the day.
Um so yeah maybe extracurriculars, sports um other than that or whatever they happen in ballet class or whatever happens in the other three mentioned.
I canÆt imagine anything else that would really be um maybe from a Tourette syndrome standpoint trying to be quiet in a quiet place like a movie theatre, churchģ
Interviewee: Library.
Interviewee: Library, yeah um you know a play, a planetarium.
These are all real challenges for these kids because they canÆt just.Interviewer: Do you think there should be a central location like if should be centralized in one place or another because IÆm curious in terms of the because we obviously have the doctorÆs office when you come here for therapy, but as you alluded to throughout there are always challenges going on and these symptoms and their fear of all these different domains of um childrenÆs lives?
Interviewee: I think itÆs great that if you just show like a... like a shorten version of a day in their actual lives like what they are doing outside of the office because what you are essentially doing is here you are giving them skills on how to deal with their issues in their life, in their world on a day the day bases so if you just, itÆs like a day in the life of you know a child.
You know, getting up, getting ready for school, getting to school, doing school.
I mean you donÆt have to get all involved just a little clips you know.
Interviewee: So now I think of it like similar, but um where maybe being the office is kind of like the center or what would be in the middle of the video and so you show some examples of what life is like having some of these disorders
school or whatever problems and then you show the imagery of here and then you show more positive imagery, like first the beginning might be a little slightly negative you know that image of the brick against the brain you know and then here itÆs a cotton ball or whatever happens some of those similar images turn positive after their experience here.
ThatÆs kind of the flow I see, but IÆm not in this field so I donÆt know anything about it.
LAUGHS
Interviewer: Well of course, thatÆs obviously why we are askingģ
Interviewee: I know nothing about it, but thatÆs just kind of if I were imaging it if I were toģ ThatÆs kind of how I would want to see it.
Interviewee: Or even running across the same thing but dealing with it differently you know like being able toģyou know...if they run across an obstacle and then they come across that same obstacle but theyÆre able theģ
Interviewee: Like show the obstacle in the beginning and show it after and then showģ
Interviewee: how they changeģyeah.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah, and how to deal with that.
Interviewer: For things like that and I guess for general too and for talking about CBT and like how it works what would you guys say should be spoken about or talked about?
ģģ So for an example, should they find out about the CBT explanation of how anxiety works?
Interviewee: Should they be shown?
Interviewer: Or shouldnÆt be
Interviewee: Oh into a
Interviewer: video
Interviewee: video
Interviewer: in one way shape or another.
YouÆre not...
YouÆre shaking your head.
Interviewee: I would think just mention it because if you are at the point where you are looking up coming to this program, you already know about anxiety, you already know about OCD, you already know about TouretteÆs, you already know about all the other things that youÆve already been there.
You just want to know or are we going to deal with these diagnoses, are weģis this going to be covered under what you are doing.
I personally wouldnÆt think you need to go into any great explanation
Interviewer: about how
Interviewee: of any of these diagnoses.
Interviewee: That may take away from or
Interviewee: Yeah causeÆ I think, I would imagine the point they are saying is ok you are going to need to go here, you already know what you are dealing with at that point, it is not brand new you know.Interviewer: How well in terms of how the therapy combats the anxiety?
Are there things that need to be discussed about how that looks, what that looks like?
Interviewee: umm Maybe let them know that they may have toģand again I donÆt know how far it is gonna go because for we just started week two, but they are gonna have to face some of their fears.
I mean I wouldnÆt word it so that it scares them because it might turn some kids away, but umm be prepare to learn to stand up to, stand up to your fears more you know
Interviewee: And how it makes you stronger
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: and your fears weaker.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: That they are going to have to be brave, you know when they come here.
Interviewer: Should there be discussions about how it worked for other kids?
Interviewee: I think so.
Interviewer: Yeah, especially I think if you are discussing or having prior individuals who moved on through therapy kind of discussing it.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so.
Interviewer: How much if we do take that route, how much of their story should be discussed causeÆ IÆm curious about a contrast between the story of the kids who have gone through vs the potential the viewer and what it might look like as you see, as you both have alluded to it very much depends on each kid, so?
Interviewee: What was the umģwhat was the nucleus of that question?
LAUGHS IÆm sorry, say that again.
I lost you.
Interviewer: um its ok, I lost myself as well.
Um doing how its worked for other kids and how maybe having kids speaking about their own experiences vs having it more about the person viewing it and how they can relateģ
Does that make sense?
Interviewee: I think, yeah.
I think um maybeģmaybe that character and it could be more than one could be a real childÆs story and then somehow in the end that child might say my name is blah bablah and not their real name obviously.
You know, my name is and IÆm so happy that I was able to go through whatever because I have blah bablah and they helped, I donÆt know.
ThatÆs all I can really thing of maybe using an example of a real person um
Interviewee: Or even if just made up an example and just gave them a name.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: Even though everyoneÆs story and everyoneÆs experience is going to be a little different.
Just a couple of examples of you know
Interviewee: the common themes like the common um maybe something that you know a lot of kids are dealing with, OCD you know, I donÆt know if its perfectionism orģ
Interviewer: Contamination
Interviewee: Contamination, yeah exactly yeah.
Interviewee: Or you wonÆt stop until you get it just right.
Interviewee: Rightģ If you use some of those, a few of those really common themes you know and just maybe show one kid from each.
Interviewer: like show the variety and how we talked about how it presents itself in different ways.
Um so we talked about how you donÆt think that its necessary to really talk about like what anxiety is, um do you think its worth talking about explicitly at least for the children how exposures really work and how theyģ?
Interviewee: I think very delicately.
Interview: Delicately.
Interviewee: Because you donÆt want to scare them.
Interviewer: Could you elaborate on that on what you mean delicately, like to you what does that look like to you?
Interviewee: Well IÆm just thinking about my son like I know the things that are some of his greatest fears/phobia type things coming into this and just with the mention of exposure therapy with him, he became very uncomfortable which is normal I guess you know, so um I donÆt think you wanna make the anxiety greater.
Interviewee: You donÆt want to scare them off.Interviewee: You donÆt want to scare them off.
You donÆt want to make their anxiety skyrocket when they are like you know oh my god, IÆm afraid of sticky things and they are going to make me touch something sticky you know by exposure therapy so I think if you bring that into it find a way to do it gently.
Interviewer: Gently for exposure therapyģ..
What were you thinking?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I mean yes because kids, at least little kids, donÆt always wanna do something because they know its best for them, they want to avoid it.
They are like oh that sounds bad I donÆt want to do that, no.
Interviewer: Right, how would you say it in terms of I think ultimately the thing that we end up doing here a lot of times in therapy is doing as you say facing their fears, so IÆm kind of curious in terms of how to relay that message to kids about you know finding that sweet spot of not wanting to scare the kids off, but at the same time that is the essence?
Interviewee: Maybe if you focus on the triumph you knowģ
Interviewer: Focus on triumph.
Interviewee: Like so if you show the kid that they... that this used to bother them, but then theyÆve been challenged and overcame these greater challenges and now look they donÆt even think about it.
They are just doing it, you know.
Interviewer: Makes sense.
Interviewee: and more of a story form rather than ok this is what we do, we are going to do the grossest stuff and you know I mean just show it like show it in a story form.
Interviewee: Yeah there is, I think there is a sweet spot there.
Um you know I think using words like you are going to have to be brave, you are going to have to pull your bootstraps up, and you are going to have to be a big kid or you know things like that, that hint at hmmm this may not be that easy, you know.
IÆm gonna have to do something that is a little bit of work, but theyÆre not really sure exactly what it is but there is that slight hint of  [UNDERSCORE].
But the reward is so great that alright IÆm gonna put my big boy pants on or whatever you know.
But um yeah I think big words like that, be brave, be strong umm itÆs gonna be worth it.
Interviewer: So you thinkģ
Interviewee: ItÆs gonna be worth it in the end.
I think just so you are not tricking them, but you are not putting it all out there either.
Interviewer: So definitely not everything out there.
We do not want be extremely explicit.
Interviewee: Because I think for kids that have OCD that if they think they are going to have to either or probably already anxious in their mind about coming here um and then if they are thinking they may face their fears thatÆs just going the skyrocket the anxietyģ and makes those compulsions just really go crazy.
Interviewer: How do you think we were discussing earlier potentially of having a kid in the parent video?
Would that look different in the parent video in terms of the message that would be given there?
Because it seems right now we are talking about the kid video we really want to talks about the benefits of therapy and how you succeed and triumph but hint at the idea that these thing are going to, you are going to have to face your fears.
Interviewee: It is going to take work
Interviewer: Right.
ItÆs going to... for the parent videos?
Interviewee: Practiceģ Well it will take some practice on behalf of the kids and I think for the parents you can pretty much put it out there like this is hard.
You are going to have to... itÆs a challenge.
Interviewer: So be more explicit.
In that sense be more explicit.
Interviewee: Yeah, so itÆs like warning you are going to have to roll your sleeves up.
Interviewee: YeahInterviewer: So is there a way of doing that in which you donÆt scare off the parents?
Interviewee: Umm I donÆt think you canģ scare off the parents because you have to do it.
You have to I mean what are you going to do?
Not do it.
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: I meanģ just oh well thatÆs too scary IÆm not, thatÆs too much work.
IÆm not going to do it.
My kid is not that worth it.
No, you are going to do it, you know.
You have to but at least you know, you know.
Interviewer: Yeah ok.
That makes a lot of sense and talking about um the parent video um one option we had was talking about what parents can and canÆt do to help.
Is that something that should be discussed in these videos?
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: What they can and canÆt do to help like while we are here?
Orģ
Interviewer: Probably in terms of like interacting with your child, whatÆs useful?
WhatÆs not useful?
Interviewee: I think thatÆs goodģ.
Because I feel like a lot of times we do exactly the opposite of what we should do.
We coddle them.
Its ok youÆll be fine...umm
Interviewee: æIÆve learn a lot of things that I was doing yeah that were just completely counteractive and I was likeģ
Interviewee: Umm I donÆt know what you think
Interviewee: But as a mother you tend to just yeah.
Maybe just let them know that be prepared to break some habits.
Be prepared for um some of your basic ideas of parenting maybe challenged, you know because it does.
Things you thought all along you know you are making it better.
Yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah you do not want to make it better.
ItÆs like the opposite.
Like youģ It might make you sick I donÆt know.
Interviewer: Having embracing what you are learning through therapy.
Yeah, definitely.
I do want to go back briefly to when we talked about the parent video um in terms of we mentioned having if there was a parent focused video, the parents would probably be the stars of those.
Would you also want kids in there for the parent videos?
And like how would that look?
Interviewee: I would maybe umģ would these be cartoons or totally definitely?
Interviewee: DonÆt, for parents.
Interviewer: Well I guess thatÆs the question too.
For parents, if we are doing a parent style video would you have a preference between like these?
Interviewee: Umģ
Interviewer: or like  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: I mean yeah.
I think you know one of these is ok for the parent also butģ
Interviewer: The line art?
Interviewee: Yeah but um I mean I would want to maybe see interviews of actual patients if they were willing toģ
Interviewer: For that
Interviewee: If they are willing to do it and their parents you know for the families that have gone through it and just kind of talk about their story briefly.
I would want to see that.
Interviewer: Anything to add.
Interviewee: Umm no I just think itÆs going to be adults.
We do not need to get all fancy.
They just want the information
Interviewer: information, right.
Interviewee: You know
Interviewer: So, um overall take home message of the video, if you had to really concisely sum it all up in terms of what absolutely should be in the video, what should that be?
Interviewee: Umm
Interviewee:  [UNDERSCORE] ģ. Probably that you know um expect you are going to come in here with problems, expect a challenge, except hard-work, and hope that the outcome is you know a smoother, a more easily operating mind of a child.
You know that thereÆs been significant resolution to a problem that it isnÆt just letÆs go to out appointment and go back to our normal day.
That itÆs going to be a lot of work for everybody.Interviewee: Yeah thatÆs like you knowģ like itÆs a lifestyle change.
ItÆs how I view it.
ItÆs just an everyday, every you knowģ and it does get better, it does get better, buts it never I donÆt feel like itÆs ever been perfect like oh weÆre cured know lets be done, weÆre done, we do not have to do this anymore.
I feel like we still do it.
Interviewer: ItÆs ongoing.
Interviewee: ItÆs ongoingģ to a lesser degree hopefully.
Interviewer: Ok um is there anything talking about CBT and videos for CBT that IÆve missed or you feel like itÆs important to mention that we havenÆt gone over already?
Interviewee: I canÆt think of anything.
I feel like we coveredģ
More than I ever expectedģ
Interviewee: Yeah I feel like we covered from my experience so far yeah.
Interviewer: Ok is there anything that came up with you that you want to mention at all?
Interviewer2: There was one part in the beginning where both of you were talking about how donÆt be afraid to ask for help um when it comes to kind of like warning others about how hard CBT could be and I just wrote what do you mean by help like in terms of like babysitting in terms of likeģ
Interviewee: I think in any way you can get support for your family um because when you have a child that is going through something like this the attention that they need is kind of all-consuming, and um you canÆtģ if you have other children it does become more difficult to kind of evenly distribute your attention to them so by having any help whatsoever from family or friends while you are kind of going through just be it toģ umm maybe just help take some load off by helping at home, you know fixing a dinner or taking a couple of the children off to playdates, or um even just being there as someone to bounce ideas off of.
I think just that overall physical and emotional support.
Interviewee: Or to even reinforce the things that you are trying to accomplish like you know if they see their grandmother let them in on it, and say this is what we are dealing with now and if you could react this way you know and deal with this type of manner you know reinforce how you what you are taught in therapy, how to a deal with a situation and you that is also um helpful.
Interviewee: Yeah definitely.
Interviewer2: That was all
Interviewer: That was all?
Interviewer2: Yeah
Interviewer: , my name is ģSo IÆm just going to ask you a series of questions similar to what and you all talked about during the consent portion.
So I want to thank you for participating and meeting with me today.
As we said this research is about finding and just creating a few short educational videos that basically describe what we do here with CBT and cognitive behavior therapy and what that really is and getting perspectives from parents as well as children as to what they think CBT is and what their experiences have been here as well.
And so instead of cognitive behavior therapy I might say CBT just because itÆs a lot to say cognitive behavior therapy a bunch of times.
So if you hear me saying CBT, thatÆs what IÆm saying.
Ok, sounds good?
Alright, so to start please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT?
Interviewee: Success.
IÆve seen great changes in my son the past.
Interviewer: Ok.
Could you elaborate?
What success have you seen from him?
Interviewee: IÆve seen him change his focus instead of getting stuck on certain things an certain elements hew moves on much quicker than he ever moved on before.
Interviewer: Ok.
Awesome.
Could you tell me what you know about CBT?
In your own words how would you explain to someone what CBT is?
Interviewee: I donÆt know how to explain it.
Interviewer: ThatÆs completely fine if you feel that you canÆt explain it.Interviewee: No, my wife is the one that got him started and kept up with it because I thought we were working on a total attention deficit until she told me.
Interviewer: ThatÆs completely fine.
When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember any questions you had and what you knew about CBT prior to?
Interviewee: The questions was does it have to be everyday does he have to miss school so much?
Interviewer: Ok.
Were there any other questions other than that?
Interviewee: I was wondering if it was going to work.
Interviewer: Fair.
How much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet or other people?
Interviewee: Not very much.
Interviewer: Ok.
So thinking about your experience were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing for you?
Interviewee: No patient; I mean each instructor, each therapist was very clear in explaining what they were doing.
Interviewer: Ok.
Perfect.
What would you want to tell somebody who was about to start cognitive behavior therapy?
Interviewee: Like I would tell the m it works.
Like I said I was very hesitant at first to seeing how much time it consumes to be in this type of therapy.
And I was shocked at how quick it works.
Interviewer: So thatÆs what you would tell someone who was about to start?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Ok.
Think of three words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it.
What would those words be?
Interviewee: I was confused because I didnÆt know what it was to begin with.
I have never really looked for it in a person so I never got to see it yet it was right there in my son.
So I donÆt know the three words.
Interviewer: So if you could think of three words, three words that came to mind, do you think of any of; can you think of any?
Interviewee: I could think of the results but three words.
Interviewee: Anything that came to mind when you first learned about it when you were sitting there, maybe in session, maybe it was post talking to your child.
Interviewee: I didnÆt know how complex it was.
Interviewer: So complex is one?
Interviewee: Yes.
Uh, I didnÆt have much faith until he started to put it into practice and then I was pleased.
Interviewer: So we have complex is one.
Can you think of any other two by chance?
Interviewee: It was educational.
Interviewer: Ok.
Complex and educational.
Interviewee: Yes and you have to have patience.
Interviewer: So it sounds like your three words are complex, educational, and the third word would be describing how you felt when you learned about CBT
Interviewee: I was overjoyed.
Interviewer: Overjoyed.
Ok. So complex, educational, overjoyed sound like the three words that describe how you felt.
Interviewee: Yes, as he went through it yes.
Interviewer: Ok sounds good.
If you were to add a picture to each of these words what would it look like?
So pictures of complex, what would that look like?
What would a vision of complex look like?
Interviewee: It would be a little boy looking at a brief case and not realizing that someone was coming to the door and as it went on he knew what was coming in through the door without worrying about the briefcase.
That almost happened with my son.Interviewer: ThatÆs great.
And the second one was educational.
So if you think of a picture, a vision in your mind of what that would look like?
Interviewee: Educational there would beģ just the joy of acknowledging things that were so clear.
You know things going back to like the briefcase, you know if the handle was crooked my son would concentrate on why the handle was crooked instead of everything else that was going on.
When he got passed that he was aware of things and it was very nice to see him not worrying about the crooked handle on the briefcase.
So it was very, it was educational to me because I never knew that his problem was stuck on the little things that concerned him.
Because I didnÆt really understand OCD
Interviewer: Right.
So with that being said, your last word was overjoyed.
How would overjoyed look?
Interviewee: Again a little boy is sitting with the little caption above him going ōWowö because being focused on what he was focused on, he wasnÆt focused on anything else.
It would be joy.
Interviewer: Joy that sounds great.
The goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety.
If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life, what would you say?
Interviewee: If anxiety became a problem?
Interviewer: Yeah, if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life, what would you say?
Interviewee: ItÆs in everyoneÆs life, constantly anxiety is there.
How we overcome anxiety is the problem.
I mean when someone cuts you off on the road, you know you get anxious and wonder when the next person will come in.
It shouldnÆt interfere with what you have to do, but it does.
Interviewer: So based on that answer, what is important for other patients to know about that?
Interviewee: Anxiety is always there you know it has to dealt with and it has to be able to come quickly, as far as IÆm concerned.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: I just know it held my son back on dealing with certain problems because he was stuck on what he was looking at.
I really donÆt know how to answer that.
Interviewer: So do you feel like CBT targets a patients thoughts, feelings, or actions?
The cognitive behavioral therapy?
Interviewee: Yes.
I mean no actions are wrong however anxiety gets you stuck and thereÆs no action.
I donÆt know that much about it, I can say itÆs a result because of my son.
Interviewer: So that being said, are there any questions you wish youÆd asked before starting CBT sessions?
Interviewee: I wish, the first day I wish I couldÆve said is this really going to work.
But as it went on, I got to see that it works and how it works.
Interviewer: Ok.
So are there any other questions, other than that, that you wanted to ask before you started CBT?
Interviewee: I wanted to ask; yes I mean I wanted to ask why so many different therapists had to be part of it.
I didnÆt know that because when I had therapy in my life it was always with one person, not a whole group.
And the group was really good because they had different ways of going about it, explaining it.
And ways of dealing with it.
But they all hit the focal point and it was amazing.
Interviewer: So what was your involvement in the CBT treatment?
What would be useful for other parents to know?
But more importantly with the first question, what was your involvement in your sonÆs treatment?
Interviewee: I got a clear sight of what was wrong with him.
I didnÆt see it as clear as what the therapist was showing.
When he was getting stuck and when he just had to move on.
And I didnÆt know that.Interviewer: Were you involvement in any way in the CBT or the therapy sessions?
Or outside of sessions were you involved with his treatment?
Interviewee: Yes, I think as a parent youÆre involved in every moment of your childÆs life.
And I did learn to be much more patient, and I just, I did learn to not be so impatient with him.
Then heÆd work things out in his own way and once they showed him the path to go through, he took it.
HeÆs a very smart boy and it was wonderful.
Interviewer: What would be useful for other parents to know?
Interviewee: That I thought it really was a disease that was incurable but itÆs not.
Interviewer: Sounds amazing.
Sounds like thereÆs hope.
Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT and is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: ThatÆs complex now, whatÆs the first part again?
Interviewer: Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: No
Interviewer: But um, If you were to, do you think thatÆs something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: Yes.
I have a blank of ok ōwhat is this?ö Just explaining what it is.
Interviewer: Did you know about someone elseÆs experience with CBT?
Interviewee: No but I knew some of his friends had it after he went through the therapy and I wound up seeing one of the here.
Interviewer: Yeah.
What would be useful for those individuals to know?
Interviewee: ThatÆs hard to say because IÆm a parent of one.
I only know these other boys from watching them from a distance.
So I donÆt know how severe it is with them, compared to my son.
But I know all the boys  [UNDERSCORE] were very smart and this just allows them to be even quicker and smarter.
Interviewer: So now that weÆve talked about the CBT and your perspective of it, weÆre going to start talking more so about the video that weÆre going to start developing based on the feedback weÆre getting from you all.
So first, we want to decide who will be in the video.
So what characters do you think we should include in the video?
Do you think there should be any non-human characters, like animals?
Do you think there should be superheroes?
Do you think parents, friends, or doctors should be considered?
So, what characters are you thinking of?
Interviewee: IÆve had eleven operations since IÆve lived in this city for 24 years.
I watched many videos of what was going to happen to me and the majority of them were boring.
I yawned right through all of them.
Some of them I wouldnÆt even pay attention to, and maybe because you see the lab coat walk in and you see them start with their papers and start to speak and itÆs like IÆm lost at the very beginning.
With kids, superheroes are great.
You know if you think about that because everyone relates to Spiderman or Thor or anyone you come up with.
ItÆs like ok, but this guy
.
To see someone in a lab coat, like IÆve watched so many and with their tablet in front of them itÆs like, I wouldnÆt go there.
IģIf there was a way to do it, I think a parent could be added just to show shock.
ItÆs like a kid doing something and a parent being in shock, like they never knew they could complete that so quickly.
You know, just being positive about it.
Interviewer: What about friends?
Would friends be a character you would want to see in the videos?
Interviewee: Friends, yes.
Not doctors.
Interviewer: So no doctors?
Um, when it comes to if an adult is watching this video, do any of these characters change for you?
If itÆs an adult watching it, an adult whoÆs the patient, does he even care?
Interviewee: I think with mature people working on it can make it fit adults and children.
Like the superheroes fit.
Every adult understands almost every superhero.Interviewer: Ok, so now that we talked about that, we need to decide where they talk, the environment; so the setting.
Would it be home, school, a doctorÆs office, or maybe somewhere outside like a park?
What settings are you thinking of?
Interviewee: That uh, every setting is the opening to the story.
So you know, not in an office.
ItÆs like who wants to watch?
I did many commercials in my life and I think outdoors, I think where everyone is relieved to look at something.
Who feels relieved when they walk into a doctorÆs office or in a room like this?
You know, I mean like when we did commercials it always had to be a colorful, bright, cheery atmosphere to begin with.
Then you could put anything into that.
Interviewer: Ok.
So after we talked about that, letÆs talk more about what the characters would talk about in the video.
Right, so weÆve talked about CBT, but what would we want, what should they find out about the CBT explanations?
How should they talk about, like would you want to hear them ask questions about how CBT has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: A little bit.
You know I would like to see examples.
You know examples of; like I said my son was stuck because he put his bag down and it was all messed up and he tried looking at it and looking at it because it wasnÆt to his standards.
You know IÆd like to see him put his book down, glance at it and thatÆs it.
The result of it you know and itÆs like I did a commercial once and they booked me as the assistant director in the commercial and they couldnÆt get it done and it was about a girl coming up a pool very sexy and they wanted to see things from her but it was a minor, I think the girl was only sixteen, even though she looked like she was twenty.
And they couldnÆt get the look on her face without talking about sex or anything that was part of it.
So jumped in the pool with her and we were talking and getting to know each other and finally I said ōokö and this was in the swamps too so it wasnÆt a pool and I said ōok hey you know the feeling of you taking a nice hot shower and your coming out of the water, you know how that feels?
Now come out of the water and feel like someone just turned the cold water on you.
LetÆs see your faceö And we did it and instantly we got the shot.
And the director said ōyou didnÆt talk about anything sexy Sid?ö and I said ōNo I didnÆtö you see that look; that shiver that she had came from that.
And so just looks, in a commercial, in visual things, you can do so many things so quickly, so easily.
Interviewer: Do you think that the video should talk about the explanation of how, the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life?
Interviewee: Yes it should be in there, it should be in there.
Interviewer: Do you believe that they, the characters in the video should discuss how exposures work?
Interviewee: Yes, but thatÆs putting an awful lot in there.
I mean for example.
My son would put his phone, whatever, right here and I can see him sitting there, looking at it.
Then the next scene I could see him putting a leg up, knocking over, catching it and just holding it and putting it and all of the sudden he doesnÆt even look at it anymore.
He caught it and was like wow what a difference?
Sitting there, staring at it.
I mean you can do so much with video, so quickly.Interviewer: So um, Should they ask about what parents can and canÆt do to help in the video?
Should that be something discussed in the video?
Interviewee: ThatÆs in every video, every video today.
Parent approval, you know.
And itÆs like, we over; we over-parent out kids anyway.
So I donÆt know if it has to be in there.
I in some way, yes as a role model in a way, but not you know ōyou should do this and not thisö and they mock, kids mock that all the time.
Interviewer: So now thereÆs a fun part of the series of videos.
How do we decide, we get to decide how the video will look like, but first let me ask you before I show you some options: What kind of animated films or cartoons do you like to watch?
Interviewee: Um, gee anything thatÆs entertaining and witty.
You know like they put an old Mickey Mouse cartoon on, itÆs like youÆve seen it, you know you can glance at it and enjoy it.
But you know something that challenges you and you know ōwhat is this?ö
....
ItÆs fascinating, like I said IÆve done lots of commercials and IÆve been in a couple of movies, IÆve been a ballet dancer my whole life, so IÆve done lots of filming in lots of different locations.
IÆve been to twenty three countries, IÆve been all over the world and itÆs amazing what visual arts can do.
With basically not saying a word.
Interviewer: Yeah.
So IÆm going to give you these options.
ThereÆs three options here with different styles.
ThereÆs the line art style, thereÆs a vector art style, and thereÆs a live action style.
So looking at these styles, IÆll give you a few seconds, or a few minutes to look over it.
Speaker ¢ I donÆt need minutes
Interviewer: Ok.
So if you donÆt need minutes IÆll give you a few seconds to look over and it and tell me which one stands out to you and which one you like?
Interviewee: The movement, the girl with an image, the girl with that.
Interviewer: Well not with the movement but with the style.
As you can see this one has more line art.
Words are popping out more.
Motion graft texts aid in delivering the content.
The next one you have more of a cartoon-like structure where thereÆs live-action video illustrated with drawings.
And then the last one is more so like a blend with comic art and live action.
So itÆs more action packed kind of style to it.
Given these three which one would you like to see from the video that we would be developing.
Interviewee: The first one, I like this.
The second one, I like this.
The third one, I like this.
Interviewer: If you had to choose one option that, one style for this video, which one of the three options would you choose?
Interviewee: I mean is this acceptable?
ThereÆs only three at the bottom.
Interviewer: TheyÆre just examples of how elseģ.
Interviewee: Yeah I like that.
Interviewer: So you like option 1?
Interviewee: For instance, youÆre balancing.
YouÆre balancing, you can be thinking of so many things while you balance or you can be thinking about nothing, and balance.
Which one makes it easy?
Interviewer: Ok.
So option 1 sounds like the one for you.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Ok with that being said, what do you think the take-home message of the video should be?
Interviewee: I want to see it again.
I like that.
I wish I could see it again.
Interviewer: That should be the take home message?
Interviewee: Absolutely.
Because if you want to see something again, youÆre really interested in it.Interviewer: Sounds good.
And um that concludes the end, but is there anything I missed?
Anything important that you feel like I havenÆt asked about that you would like to see explained in the videos or anything I missed within the interview?
Interviewee: Um, you know you as students, as PhD students, you know I think, my wife has lots of PhD students in her lab and what I see with them is that they wind up staying more educational because theyÆre students.
You know but if you can break away from that, you know what you like and what you donÆt like.
But then again you know what you might like for his project and thatÆs different, but you have good taste, you dress well your postureÆs well.
You know what looks good and what doesnÆt look good.
What youÆd be interested in and what doesnÆt.
Same with me, basically I like the same thing you like.
You know weÆre on a level you know unless you havenÆt been around the world and have been kept I the closet, you know.
Once seeing the boring, you know the commercials that challenge, and they always try to make them better, but how do you make a McDonaldÆs commercial better?
Interviewer: So if you have any other suggestions or feedback.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Always make someone think.
For instance, I told you the commercial that I did.
Now the film was from the back of the girl and sheÆs coming out of the water, shivering, you know, but you donÆt know if sheÆs crying, or laughing, or giggling.
Now the intrigue of it is whatÆs so nice.
But when they came from the front you can see that sheÆs enjoying herself.
Interviewer: So the visuals need to beģ what you think.
Interviewee: Yeah you take it; you can take it to places, you know, be creative.
Interviewer: Ok.
Sounds good.
Interviewee: You know like in dance class when things got boring they would say ōshow me how it feels if you stuck that finger right in that socket, right now.
Show me how it feels.ö
You know?
It wouldnÆt be boring in any way.
ItÆd be shocking, itÆd be devastating, but it wouldnÆt be boring.
Interviewer: So no boring.
Being creative not boring is what IÆm hearing from you.
Interviewee: You donÆt want to do that.
You lose people.
Like do it again or did you really stick that finger in that socket.
You know heÆs a good actor!
Something like that.
But you see thatÆs not, youÆre not in commercial video arts.
So IÆm off in lala land.
But IÆm just telling you what works.
And thatÆs only because I did commercials and I found out what commercials worked and what commercials didnÆt work and why, and those creative people; theyÆre geniuses in a way, but theyÆre also, they stay in a box.
A lot of the geniuses are making money and they do; they know how to do things but they still stay in the box.
Sometimes you have to reach out of the box.
WhatÆs amazing about this is that IÆd do it again and how many things do you want to do again medically?
You know?
Not many.
You know?
Interviewer: Well, IÆm glad you had a good experience here.
Interviewee: Yes it was better than good, it was exciting because it was results that I would enjoy and my sonÆs gonna enjoy.
So, itÆs like you said itÆs a feeling but itÆs not just good itÆs like you guys gave us a gift.
I donÆt know I sound like IÆm going on and on about.
I mean IÆm trying to communicate with you and tell you how this was so, this was so close to home.
I mean with going and taking so many tests and seeing so many doctors.
Just to get diagnosed, we went to twelve different doctors you know and everyoneÆs got a different opinion and everyoneÆs got a way of doing things.
But this is a result here.Interviewer: Well thank you for your feedback and thank you again for participating in this.
I know it took time out of your day but we really appreciate it.
And hopefully we can get a lot of feedback from this and develop an educational video to explain a lot of this to future patients in a way they can understand before they start therapy.
Interviewee: But I think you understand me and think you can sit there with someone whoÆs doing the art and your conception is so on that you can say ōthatÆs not going to work.ö
You can say it and you have to do it.
Interviewer: Well thank you for your time again.
Interviewer: Thank you for meeting up with us today.
So weÆre working with a group of psychologists and psychiatrists, basically trying to get feedback about peopleÆs experiences, patientÆs experiences about the work that we do here, the therapy, more specifically cognitive behavioral therapy, and IÆll be saying CBT because itÆs a lot to say cognitive behavioral therapy, so IÆll be saying that.
We want to develop a few short educational videos that will help future patients and parents understand exactly what CBT is, especially the therapy for the children.
So to start off, please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT.
Interviewee: Well in my daughterÆs case, its anxiety issues.
Being around other people, what other people think about her; sheÆs always thinking about that.
Interactions with other people, going into places, like a dressing room, for instance in a store, she just feels very comfortable about doing that.
In some cases she doesnÆt feel like she belongs there; sheÆs not worthy.
Another example is she was getting rewards at school, and she didnÆt think she was worthy of getting them.
She didnÆt want to get up in front of people.
So thatÆs kind of what I think of.
In essence, I guess itÆs another disorder, and I guess thatÆs how I look at it.
Interviewer: Could you tell me about what you know about CBT?
In your own words, explain what CBT is, thatÆs cognitive behavioral therapy.
Interviewee: Well behavioral therapyģ cognitive thinking about your behavior.
So I would assume weÆre talking about how weÆre addressing people who have behavioral issues thinking.
Which for me goes back to my daughterÆs anxiety.
Is that essentially what youÆre looking for?
Interviewer: So I canÆt answer the questions, itÆs more so getting your complete perspective about what you know about CBT and therapy.
Interviewee: Outside of just my experience here, I havenÆt done a lot of research into it.
I mean in all honesty, I was probably the one most unaware in my family of what was going on with my daughter.
To me, itÆs like what I was seeing was so different than what I was seeing with my other daughter, and really had no idea.
It was more of a daughter- mother communication that was going on initially, then I got included.
So it can be, I think, very difficult to assess, and I see my daughter probably more than my wife does because IÆm a stay at home dad, basically feeding and getting them off from school, and everything else, so yeah, pretty muchģInterviewer: No, thatÆs good to know.
When you first learned about the kind of therapy that we do here, do you remember what questions you had?
What did you know about CBT prior to the sessions here?
Interviewee: I really didnÆt know a lot about, again, the cognitive CBDģ as far as what you did hear, my wife is a physician.
I never had any fear about bringing my daughter here, although I will say that not really knowing initially what we were talking about, I think there is this stigma of, ōOkay your daughter is going to go to therapy.ö
And right away, you think psychiatry, and you think drugs and you think WACKY PEOPLE.
And youÆre like, I grew up in a situation where I had a couple brothers who had comparable type issues to what my daughterÆs experiencing, never thought a thing about it, and we basically just toughed right through it.
You know, unless I think the child is speaking out or you have an adult whoÆs really perceptive to these kinds of things; my wifeÆs a physician, she may have noticed some things, but again it was my daughter who was willing to open up, whereas with a boy, they may not perceive that.
Interviewer: So what kind of questions did you have then when you were coming in, if you could remember?
Interviewee: I really did not ask a lot of questions, and I was the one that brought her here.
Matter of fact, out of the, I donÆt know how many times weÆve been here, 10, 15, 20 times, my wife has only been here one time.
Again, I wasnÆt too worried about the therapy because I saw it strictly as being a sitting down and talking, and after the very first session I kind of got an idea of what was going to be transpiring in terms of okay, everything weÆre trying to do is repetitive type situations with her anxiety disorder.
If weÆre doing this over and over then you get more used to it then you donÆt get the anxiety of doing it, and you start to realizeģ of course she got taught techniques in dealing with anxiety, thatÆs itÆs not as big an issue that youÆre making it up to be internally.
Interviewer: How much did you know about CBT from movies, the TV, the internet, or other people?
Did any or all of it match your experiences?
Interviewee: Well I will say this, I donÆt think anyone phrases what I have seen as CBT.
I donÆt hear them talking about it on TV.
When you watch a movie, you donÆt hear them talking about CBT.
In other words, it is a phrase that people are not, I believe, familiar with.
And as a result, you say CBD it sounds like a lot of other, you know, abbreviations.
I donÆt know if saying CBD is another way of saying therapy, maybe you just say therapy, or you know, coming up with a gentler, easier, kinder way to make people feel comfortable about what the subject matter is.
Because to me, CBT didnÆt mean anything
Interviewer: Thinking about your experience, were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who was about to start CBT?
Interviewee: IÆm saying CBD not CBT.
Interviewer: CBT: cognitive behavioral therapy.
I know weÆve said it several times.
Interviewee: I was also in a medical background for a while.
CBD meant something else different.
Interviewer: Okay, okay.
Interviewee: IÆm sorry, say the question again.Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who was about to start cognitive behavior therapy?
Interviewee: I would say not to fear it, not to be stressed out about it.
Having seen what I have seen here, and when I say that I mean just seeing some of the people that have come in, some of them, which go to my daughterÆs school, you have no idea that ōWow, sheÆs here tooö or ōHeÆs here, I had no idea.ö
ItÆs something that a lot of people, I guess the ones who have been willing to talk about it or have had someone who has perceived intentionally that you could get help like this, that itÆs available; you shouldnÆt be stigmatized about it, you shouldnÆt worry about it.
ItÆs not a big deal.
You know, if people only realized you probably would find about a third of the country is in some kind of therapy or is taking some kind of a drug, unfortunately, to assist them with depression or something like that.
I have been surprised on a number of occasions with former friends
and to find that half of them were on antidepressants in their 30s or 40s you know.
Interviewer: Think of three things that describe you felt about CBT when you first heard about it.
What would those words be?
Interviewee: Words about how I felt about CBTģ
Interviewer: So think about three words that described how you felt, when you first heard about it, and what would those words be?
Interviewee: Helpfulģ non-threateningģcommon.
Interviewer: Okay, helpful, non-threatening, and common.
If you were to add a picture to each of those words, what would it be?
Interviewee: Add a picture to each of these wordsģ helping a kid with like, homework.
ThatÆs what weÆre talking about.
Non- threatening, talking to a police officer.
Interviewer: whoÆs talking to a police officer?
Interviewee: Anybody.
Interviewer.
Anybody.
Okay.
Interviewee: Kids today are afraid of police officers in many casesģ what was my last suggestion?
Interviewer: Your last one was common.
Interviewee: Common, just looking at a crowd of people and probably a third or half of the people either could use therapy or are in therapy in some way, shape, or form.
Interviewer: So the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety.
If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life, what would you say?
Interviewee: Not noticing either the symptoms, case in point, or not being informed, which I guess is
of this session, trying to find a way to inform people of what people have, and that there are solutions to deal with, and they are readily available if you have insurance or maybe even if you donÆt.
Interviewer: Right.
What is important for other patients to know based off what you said earlier aboutģ
Interviewee: That the three descriptive things is essentially that this is accessible and it is there to help you, and it will help you if youÆre dealing with anxiety.
It can be healed.
You can be healed.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: Any specific skillsģ
Interviewer: Or areasģ what about thoughts, feelings, and actions.
Do you feel that CBT targets those areas?
Interviewee: Well absolutely, I mean those are all anxiety base type
Yes.
Yes it does affect all of those in the personÆs life, and so yeah you need to find a solution
therapy certainly addresses that.
Interviewer: Are there any questions you wish you had asked before you started the CBT in the context of the previous question.Interviewee: I think in most peopleÆs case when it comes to therapy, you kind of like to have an idea how long something will take.
That was the one thing I never thought about asking because you want to follow it through as much as youÆre able to make sure your kid, or daughter, or whoever gets the treatment that they need.
So there was never really any kind of a period that was set down.
I mean unlike in other therapy sessions, like you go to a chiropractor and your insurance company may allow you to do 25, 30 visits.
I have no idea what weÆre able to get, you know, if thereÆs a limit on that.
I would like to think IÆve got a pretty good insurance package with my wife [UNDERSCORE] [LOCATION], but that was one thing I think some parents may like to know.
You donÆt know what this is going to cost, how long itÆs going to take.
Then again, obviously it depends on the subject.
Whether or not the therapy is working on the person.
Interviewer: Are there any other questions that you would want to know before we started the CBT?
Interviewee: It may be helpful to kind of give people an idea of what is the therapy, because that was never really explained.
It was like we go, we sit down in a room, we start asking questions, ōwho are you?
What do you do?
WhatÆs going on with you?ö and you never really find out ōhereÆs how weÆre going to treat you.ö
Now maybe thatÆs something that just happens between the parent and the therapist, so there was never really any discussion of that.
Ultimately we did get to ōokay thereÆs going to be some things that we will go over and over, then hereÆs some tricks to learn how to trick yourself basically into believing nothingÆs really wrong.ö
So that might have been very useful.
Interviewer: What was your involvement in CBT?
What would be useful for other parents to know if itÆs not different from what youÆve already shared?
Interviewee: My involvement in CBT primarily was ensuring that to a certain extent, and this was minimized, really, in my case, that I tried to get my daughter to do certain activities so that we could have this repetitive testing, if you will, going on.
Because you just canÆt walk into the session and expect your therapist to give a 45 minute to an hour ōhereÆs whatÆs going to happen,ö the kid leaves and the kid doesnÆt do anything.
If you canÆt find a way to get your child to actually continue to challenge themselves, then theyÆre really not going to improve all that much.
So, youÆve really got to, with the approval of the therapist, find a way to challenge your kid, push them on multiple occasions.
We didnÆt do it a lot, we couldÆve pushed a lot more, but I was told, ōYou donÆt want to do it too much, within limits.ö
I would bring up ideas.
I would get an okay, ōyeah that sounds like a good idea, do that.ö
Interviewer: Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: I did not at all.
I mean in all honesty I did not see coming here as being in any way, shape, or form threatening, although as I mentioned before, any time you talk about therapy, I could see from the perspective
in the future, that in the case of a parent, yeah thereÆs a little bit of stigma.
ōWhy is my kid having to go to therapy?
What did I do wrong?ö That kind of a situation going on in my head.
And we, my wife and I, did have some discussions on that.
As it turns out, my mother in law is also a therapist in this area, so we got her feedback on some things.
I donÆt always agree with her.Interviewer: So as far as scientific research, given to patients or parents, do you think itÆs something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: I honestly think thatÆs just going to, again, now IÆm sure there are a lot more severe cases than what my daughter has, so depending on the severity of the situation, I think you may find a parent a lot more involved or concerned about whatÆs going on.
In that particular situation, yeah, they may need a lot more support in terms of what is happening with their child.
As I said before, in my particular situation, I didnÆt deem my daughterÆs issue to be that severe, although, you know, I donÆt know how it compares to some other people, but there were some moments, according to my daughter, where she was freaking out inside, so she wasnÆt able to do certain things or didnÆt want to go do certain things, and I guess that could metastasize into something else later in life.
So, level of seriousness, yeah, itÆs hard to gage, but I didnÆt need that, I didnÆt feel that I needed to have that kind of research.
So like I said, I didnÆt go look it up.
My wife being a physician, you, know, we basically just said, ōHey this is available to us.
The kidÆs complaining of a problem, letÆs go check this out.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Did you know about somebody elseÆs experience with CBT, if so, was it positive or negative?
Interviewee: I did not... nobody that I know was I ever told went into any kind of therapies.
I mentioned before I had friendsģ we moved to Florida 3 years ago, and come to find out a number of our close friends, half of them, are on antidepressants or undergoing therapy.
I had no clue.
ItÆs one of these things that ultimately gets around to some of the husbands who talk.
So no, I really had no experience at all with CBT.
Interviewer: So as we said, this interview is all about developing the new videos and also getting feedback on that as well.
So first we need to decide who would be in the video, before I show you this actually, like who would be in the video, what characters do you think it should  [UNDERSCORE]?
Interviewee: Well who are you going to be showing the videos to?
Interviewer: Patients, children, parents.
Interviewee: So itÆs the first time type.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Also even adults, adults who are actually patients themselves.
So with that in mind, who do you think, who do we need to decide will be in the videos as far as characters?
What characters should we include?
Interviewee: Well, I mean, if theyÆre going to be doing this with kids, if youÆre going to be showing this to adolescents, I would want obviously adolescents talking about it.
Girls to girls, boys to boys, type of thing.
As I mentioned to you, IÆve seen a number of kids from my daughterÆs school here, and that kind of surprised me.
ThereÆs been a couple of incidents where IÆve found out that other kids
even after we started here, and I donÆt know if my wife talked to them or not, the parents of the other kids, but in terms ofģ I was getting off track there for a secondģ but yeah, IÆd stick to basically if youÆve got kids, then show other kids, and if the parents of the kid, then you need to possibly have a video that speaks to the parent of that child as well, or you know the parentÆs obviously going to be savvy enough to sit down and understand their kid watching another kid and whatÆs going on.Interviewer: So with that being said, just more follow up on that question, should there be any non- human characters, such as animals, superheroes?
Interviewee: Uhģ itÆs interesting you say superheroes.
My brother- in- law is a big super hero guy here in town.
He supplies Shands with the bat- mobile, all that kind of stuffģ that really would be, in my opinion, dependent on the kid.
Depending on the age of the kid and their interest level, you may have kids that are just like my brother in law, who are big time into the superhero genre: Marvel, DC comics and all that kind of stuff, and you can get kids that are really into that world, because theyÆve decided to become, I hate to say reclusive, but inward, looking inward constantly, and not really looking out.
Introvert, is what I was looking for.
So they start looking at nonstop computer games, videos online, things like that becomes a world that they are familiar with.
So I would say on a limited basis, you may be able to, depends on your budget!
How many videos can you put out?
Interviewer: What about children?
Should we include a boy or girl?
Both?
Or parents, friends, doctors in the videos?
Interviewee: Well, I mean, youÆre trying to make the parent feel comfortable in most cases, because the kidÆs not going to have a choice, theyÆre going to be coming, so I think you could do both.
Still the video speaks to the kid with the parent seeing it, but then again I think you also should probably have something talk to the parent in general about what to expect.
ItÆs something that you should do maybe before they get here.
Are you talking about having the videoģ well you donÆt want to answer my questions, soģ ha-ha... maybe you have an introductory set of videos that address this prior to them coming, so they do have an idea about cognitive behavioral therapy.
Interviewer: So now that weÆve talked about who would be in the video, what about deciding where the video would take place?
In the context of the video, would it be a home setting, school setting, doctorÆs office, or somewhere outside like a park?
Interviewee: I would say that would depends on, and you guys would have more figures on this than I would, but I could definitely see one of them happening in a school.
LetÆs say out of a hundred people, 45% of the time, 50% of the time, things are school related, like my kid, they spend a lot of time in school that maybe you have one that shows the kid on school answering questions and showing, ōYeah, it paid to answer a question in the classroom,ö or IÆm looking over here at the other kid and thinking what sheÆs thinking about me.
In that particular situation, sure, having a school video may not be a bad idea.
Certainly something in the home, eh, that puts adults typically at ease, but where are most of these anxiety situations transpiring?
Maybe thatÆs kind of the environment you want to have a video like that because thatÆs people are going to associate with their situation.Interviewer: Sounds good.
Now that weÆve talked about both of those, the last thing is what should we decide that they talk about in the video?
WeÆve already started talking about this with the other questions, but what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer within the video?
Should they find out a CBT explanation about how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life?
Interviewee: I think you can talk about that, but you have the person talking about the kind of experiences they have.
Because some people may not evenģ again, I didnÆt even really know, and I would dare say thereÆs a lot of kidsģ and you hate to think thereÆs that many people out there who have issues.
Again, I think thereÆs a stigma attached and without question, I know there is because I know a couple other docs, my daughter has told me that their kidsģ you know, ōthis kid had a problemö and mother says ōmaybe you should stay away from that person if theyÆre being depressed,ö or you know thereÆs a stigma attached with this.
WeÆre seeing a therapist.
Honestly, IÆm not sure if weÆre seeing a PhD OR MasterÆs level therapist or not psychiatristsģ correct?
TheyÆre not psychiatristsģ I donÆt know... maybe they are, I never looked at their diploma.
So I think there is somewhat of a stigma attached with this to a lot of people.
ThatÆs what youÆre going to have to breakthrough; in that itÆs not that difficult, itÆs not that uncommon.
You donÆt need to be scared of it.
People donÆt like to say, ōOh yeah IÆm in therapy,ö or my daughterÆs mentioned that, because the first thing that some of the kids think is, ōOoh, stay away from her, sheÆs got a problem.ö
Interviewer: So is that something youÆd want to be discussed in the videos?
Interviewee: I think you do need to talk about that.
ThereÆs some potential risk there, so you need to basically limit who youÆre going to talk to because stuff gets around.
I was even told, ōdonÆt tell the rest of the family.
We donÆt want them thinking negatively of whatÆs going on.ö
Then again to me, it was like, ōWhat are we talking about here?ö This doesnÆt seem like that big of a deal, but yet it is.
If youÆre that person thatÆs in therapy youÆre thinking about what everyone else is thinking about your family.
You go on a trip, you see the other half of the family, and its like, ōwhatÆs going on with you?
I heard youÆre in therapy.ö
Negative connotations just spread.
People can say things.
They can be very hurtful, so there needs to be some thought given to that.
Interviewer: Should they ask about how it has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: I would say so.
Having examples of kids who could, again in an educational setting, stand up and basically say, ōHereÆs the problems that I had.
I was afraid of doing this.
I couldnÆt do this, I couldnÆt do that, and fortunately I talked to my mother about itģ blah blah blah blahģ this is what happened, and I got into this program, and it helped me to deal with it.
I still have it to a certain extent, but I know how to deal with it, and now I can go around doing A, B, C, D, and E, and IÆm okay.
My life has expanded greatly.ö
I think you want to show that kind of positive type situation.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Should they ask about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Ask about how exposures workģ okay since you canÆt answer a questionģ.
Interviewer: Should they ask about the activities or the homeworkÆs that is usually given and the need to do it outside?
Should they ask about that?
Interviewee: Ask the therapist?
YesģInterviewer: No, should the characters in the videos discuss how exposures work soģ basically just how the activities that youÆre asking typically engage in CBTģ should they ask that?
Interviewee: I think yes, absolutely.
Again, I mentioned it earlier that yes, I would kind of want to know, ōhow does therapy work?
What is it youÆre going to be doing?
Are we just sitting down and talking across the couch like a psychiatrist?
Or are we doing interactive type things or active type things with other people as a way to deal with the anxiety?ö So yeah, I would definitely try to get as much information out there as possible because youÆre going to put people at ease if they know somethingģ hopefully.
Interviewer: Alright and should the characters in the video ask about what parents can and canÆt do to help?
Interviewee: I would say yes, but again, this kind of depends on are you just going to make one video thatÆs going to address, like I was talking about, you can have a video that addresses a kid a parent can obviously watch that, but you could also have a video that maybe is inclusive to the parents prior to them coming here that does tell them what they should be expected, or what they should be expecting to see, and what they should be expecting to do to help their kid.
Yeah, I donÆt see a problem doing that, but again, that would be having a therapist obviously talking to the parents, ōMom, dad, hereÆs what to expect.
HereÆs whatÆs going to happen.
This is what we need you to do to really help this therapy take hold and work.ö
Interviewer: Sounds good.
So now weÆve talked about who will be in the video, where they will talk, what they will talk about.
LetÆs talk about how the video would look like, and thatÆs when I bring these into play.
But before I do that, let me ask you, are there any cartoons or animated videos or movies that you like, that catches your interestģ your favorite ones to watch?
Interviewee: Animatedģ you did say animatedģ
Interviewer: Yeah, cartoons or animated movies.
Interviewee: I havenÆt watched a cartoon in years.
Okay, ōHow to Train My Dragon.ö
Interviewer: Okay, is that a movie?
Interviewee: Yeah thereÆs 3 or 4 now, and I donÆt believe IÆve actually seen them.
I havenÆt seen the last one.
The characters I think appeal to a certain age groupģ more of a younger set than high school.
I donÆt think youÆre really seeing high school kids into animation.
I think theyÆre more into the Marvel, DC Comics type stuff.
But yeah, the reason I bring up that particular movie is because youÆve got a character in there who has, whoÆs missing a leg who was a kid whoģ heÆs the kid in the village whoÆs the son of the chief of the village and heÆs a total wimp.
I mean he looks like the wimpy kid, and this is a Viking village, okay.
So the dad is this huge character, and heÆs this peg legged little nobody, and he ends up getting to be friends with a dragon, learns how to fly the dragon, and so on.
So in a way, thereÆs some issues in this movie that can be looked at as being like anxiety.
So you may be able to have some relations there, but itÆs a movie/ series thatÆs done pretty well, I think.
So with a younger set, in terms of kids, yeah they may find having characters like that talking about certain things they would understand.
But again, with high school kids?
If you talk to high school kidsģ IÆll tell you right now, my kids spend more time looking on YouTube looking at stuff and half the time IÆm like, ōWhat are you guys looking at?ö ItÆs the weirdest crapģ I mean youÆre listening to a guy talk about some game and youÆre just sitting there listening to him talk about a game.
How to do this, how to do that.
I donÆt know if you know.
I donÆt get it at all.Interviewer: IÆve heard of thoseģSo hereÆs some examples.
IÆll show you some styles that we want to get your feedback from.
You can look through these, and basically thereÆs a line art style for videos, a  [UNDERSCORE] art style, thereÆs a comic book blended with live- action type style.
So take a look at them really quick, and when youÆre done let me know which styles are most appealing to you, which ones you like the most and why.
Interviewee: Ohhhģ so much of this is age dependent.
I mean option 2- definitely the younger kids.
Option 3 may appeal more to the younger high school set, probably some late term middle schoolers.
Interviewer: So you said option 2 for younger kids?
Interviewee:
ģ.yeah.
The imagesģ at least the images based here, cartoon characters, I would say yeah youÆre appealing to elementary school.
Interviewer: And what did you say about option 3?
Interviewee: I can see definitely more high school and maybe like eighth grade.
The maturity level of kids nowadays is, itÆs all over the place.
ItÆs amazing how mature they are for their age.
I mean option 1 I think would appeal more to the adult.
Yeah.
Actually, I think option 1 has been used quite a lot in doing like online fat- burner stuff and things like that.
Herbal medicine type things, you see it.
Interviewer: If you had to choose one for your specific situation, with your daughter and your experiences that you would want to see, which one, if you only had to choose one, would it have to be?
Interviewee: In my daughterÆs case, 14 years old... I actually think sheÆd go a lot with line art, option 1.
Because sheÆs going into 9th grade I just, in her particular situation, I think, just based on what IÆve seen her working at, she would probablyģ sheÆs intelligent enough, mature enough, to derive information from a video like that, as opposed to going to a comic book type route/ cartoon situation.
So actually, in a lot of high schools, you probably would get, thinking about it a little more, option 1- adults and young adults.
Interviewer: Okay.
Sounds good.
What do you think the take home message for the videos should be?
Interviewee: ThereÆs 3 things I gave you before.
What did I say?
I forgot.
Interviewer: Non- threatening.
Common.
And there was another one.
Helpful.
There you go.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Helpful.
Non- threatening.
Common.
In essence, everyone has anxiety.
Therapy is not threatening.
ItÆs helpful.
ThatÆs not too bad.
I like all three of those.
Interviewer: So going back to that same question you think that same answer applies?
Interviewee: Yeah!
In fact, you can say I said that.Interviewer: Okay. Alright.
Is there anything I missed?
Anything important that I havenÆt asked about that you feel I need to know?
Interviewee: No, but I would say, and I mentioned this to the part there I think one time, that it occurs to me that there are a lot of people out there who have these kind of issues.
As I said, most families may not even give it a second thought and just gloss right over it, thatÆs the way I was, you know.
Finding a way to get the word out, to me, would seem to be critical in your guysÆ situation, finding a way, in essence, to market it.
That probablyģ I donÆt knowģ my kids go to a private school so I would treat things a little differently.
But I would say, you know, itÆs a kind of thing at the beginning of school youÆd like to have somebody get up whoÆs a therapist and say, ōLook guys, we want you to enjoy school, but if youÆre having these kind of thingsģö find a way to communicate it to people to where theyÆre not worried about coming to a counselor.
And I know all schools now a days have got different guidance counselors and things like that, or are supposed to be perceptive and picking up on all this stuff.
The reality is, theyÆre still going to be relying on ultimately on the kid coming to them when youÆve got hundreds, in some cases, thousands of kids in some of these schools.
So I donÆt know if there was a way to show a video at the beginning of the year, or finding a way to get people to talk about this kind of stuff.
And I know to a certain extent, they do where my kids go to school.
They have small group type sessions, and they meet once a week, and they go over, ōHowÆs everyone doing?
What are the problems?ö But again, thereÆs still a stigma attached to it.
Somehow youÆve got to get over this stigma, which is why itÆs finding a way to communicate, ōLook, everybodyÆs got issues.
ItÆs common.ö
In todayÆs worldģ maybe 30, 40, 50 years ago, we just sucked it up and dealt with it.
Any many of us may have problems today that we donÆt know about, but finding a way to eliminate that kind of thing and that there is help available for something like this.
Yeah I think that if you canģ again, CBT, I mean that makes it sound like a bad drug or some way of communicating that this isnÆt really uhģ itÆs a big deal, yes, but itÆs not a big deal to get help for it.
It could be the smallest things, just like I said, youÆre afraid to raise your hand in class, thatÆs a real wimpy one, but youÆre worried about what other people think about you.
Gosh, look at all the stuff weÆve got with online issues with Facebook and everything else.
You can see what people are blurring out.
You can tell most people got issues.
Sorry if youÆre on Facebook.
So yeah, to me, when they first approached me about this, even when we were first starting our therapy, the one thing I thought about was, ōGeez.
There are probably so many people out there, especially younger generations, who need help who donÆt really know they need help, or if they did know they need help, their parents would just be like, ōWhat are you talking about?
ThereÆs nothing wrong with you.
I see you every day.
You look fine.
ItÆs the way youÆve always been.ö
Not knowing that some of their behavior has impacted their ability to do things in school- itÆs had an impact on their life.
So yeahģ finding a way to deal with that stigmaģ finding a way to rephrase it, repackage it, show people that itÆs common, and that there are ways to deal with it, and that theyÆre available.
To me, thatÆs a big, big deal finding, helping people.
The videos are great.
You may even have, if you can create a video, maybe it could even be something that you could put into a high school and watchģ actually, even younger than that.
Middle school I guessģ I mean theyÆre smart kids in middle school now.
Boy, IÆm telling you, really smart.
So yeah, that would be a good idea, to get that information out there.Interviewer: Okay. ThatÆs good to know.
Well, if thereÆs nothing else, thank you so much for your time and your feedback and for taking the time out to do this interview with us.
ItÆs really appreciated.
Interviewee: Thank you!
Interviewer: Ok, thank you so much for meeting with us today.
IÆm working with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavior therapy and the kind of therapy your daughter has been doing, and for this project we want to develop a short educational video that would describe this type of therapy and give a little more insight to patients and family to what they can expect from cognitive behavior therapy.
Also, cognitive behavior therapy is pretty long so throughout IÆm just going to shorten it to CBT.
So to start can you tell me what comes to mind when you think of CBT.
Interviewee: A therapist or psychologist talking with the adolescent about, or even an adult, about ways to handle different stressors um soģ um itÆs something that helps to reframe how a child sees or experiences what they think is a problem.
Interviewer: Yeah, definitely so helping them handle certain stressors and kind of reframing their cognition and could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words.
What would you explain what it is?
Interviewee: Can you restate the question.
Interviewer: Yes, so in your own words if you had to provide a definition of what CBT is, what would you say that it is?
I know kind of what you mentioned is what comes to mind to you is kind of a good definition.
You know kind of summarize that.
Interviewee: Narrow it down.
Cognitive behavior therapy would beģ not supposed to say the same word in the definition.
Therapy or meeting one-on-one with a CBT trained specialist or psychologist with a patient um and to try to change behavior by thinking of things in a different way.
Interviewer: Yeah, ok awesome!
And when you first learned about this type of therapy that we do here, do you remember if you had any questions or if there was something specific you wanted to know about CBT?
Interviewee: Well, I also have gone through considerable CBT therapy so when it came time for my daughter to um go through it as well I didnÆt hesitate to put her in it because I knew it was something that worked.
Interviewer: Yeah so from personal experience you didnÆt really have any questions.
You kind of knew what to expect.
Interviewee: Right.
Well forģ I didnÆt know what to expect for her specifically.
So itÆs been interesting to watch the changes happen.
Interviewer: Yeah, and how much did you know about CBT from movies, the media, TV, other people, and if so did this match yours or your childÆs experience?
Interviewee: So would this involve mindfulness as well or...?
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: Ok.
I mean I can think of a Star Trek movie that indicated being in the moment and how I can relate that to slowing down time and getting things to work differently or better.
Say the question one more time.
Interviewer: Yeah um so how much did you learn or hear about CBT from movies, TV, internet, media, any of those outside sources?
Interviewee: Um thereģ IÆm a Interviewer so there are a couple of Interviewer songs that indicate breathing techniques you know slow down, appreciate where you are, and take a breath, or take a deep breath and hold on.
So songs definitely, movies a couple of movies specifically that Start Trek one I donÆt remember the name of it.
It was with Jean Picard.
Um TV, I donÆt watch TV much so I cants say much to that um and most people do not talk about therapy so I canÆt say that it was anything from what someone said.
Interviewer: Um so what was described in the Star Trek movie and some of the songs you heard?
Do those thing being described match yours and your daughterÆs experiences with CBT?
Interviewee: Part of it yeah.Interviewer: And thinking about yours and your childÆs experience was there anything about CBT that was confusing?
Interviewee: About theģ I didnÆt know howģ didnÆt know the method um and they didnÆt tell me.
I mean they told me it was a CBT based therapy, but I had go find out what CBT was because they werenÆt going to tell me how they were going to work with me or my daughter so.
Kind of had to find out along the way.
Interviewer: mmh yeah so really like the method, the process was what was confusing.
Interviewee: I do have to say that learning the breathing techniques at first, or actually for a while and for some people, I know it was very strange so IÆve been through DBT as well and um some people I remember just seemed to think that it was just more Buddhist type of an activity and I know I also sort of thought that as well because some of theģ if you say the word meditation if you are talking to kids from strong Interviewer background, people who do still go to church although it seems like we are dwindling group um, itÆs a little put offish in way.
You have to make yourself overcome the way it sounds to accept the way it works.
Interviewer: Right, ok awesome and what would you want to tell someone who is about start CBT?
Interviewee: Give it time to work.
If it feels weird the first time in the first session its ok.
ItÆs not just talk therapy.
There is a purpose for it.
There is a goal in mind.
You are not just going to be stuck in talk therapy forever so give it three to five sessions before you make a strong opinion about what it is and how it is affecting your childÆs behavior.
Interviewer: So being patient and knowing that it truly is a goal-oriented type practice.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Ok awesome and if you could think of three words to describe CBT when you first learned about it, what would those be?
Interviewee: IÆm thinking.
Interviewer: Take your time
Interviewee: Calmness, reframingģ all I can think about are sentences umģ I canÆt think of another word.
I can think of mindfulnessģ being in the moment.
I donÆt know how to say that in one word.
Interviewer: ThatÆs ok because thatÆs three words.
Yeah that works.
So for each of those words if you had to add a picture to them calmness, reframing, mindfulness, or being in the moment what would they look like?
Interviewee: I would think that would differ for each person.
For me it would be a safe place somewhere where didnÆt feel threatened.
For me itÆs beside like the side of a small river where there is water coming down or you can hear the trickling of water and um just having a nice temperature and a little bit of sun in your face.
Just peacefulness and just the lack of threat.
Interviewer: And what about for reframing.
What would that look like?
Interviewee: So reframing would be like I have a memory of an event that happened and I think of it almost has myģ itÆs complicated but I. Um so reframing would be me having my opinion about based on limited information at the time when I was a child and having the therapist or the psychologist ask me what would have happened if my mom had taken me somewhere else..
Um...
What would have happened if thereģ what other outcome could have occurred?
Interviewer: So kind of like presenting a hypothetical.Interviewee: Yeah yeah and it makes you go back.
So I relive these things every time I talk about them unfortunately.
So um there was this time in sixth grade where my mom who is schizophrenic and bipolar.
My parents got divorced in third grade so my mom... so I was living alone with my mom and my brother and sister lived with my dad.
So the situation was my mom wanted to know what I thought about moving to Canada.
We were living in Colorado and it scared me enough somehow that I contacted my brother and sister who were living with my dad and within that week custody changed from me being with my mom to me being with my dad.
So I felt guilty for so many years for most of my life that I left mom when I promised her that I wouldnÆt.
So in cognitive behavior therapy the question posed to me was what would have happened if you had stayed with your mom?
So I had to think.
Well we could have ended up homeless.
We could haveģ oh and so a result of me leaving also was that she got hospitalized.
So in the scheme of things it had a good outcome, although for the longest time I felt bad.
It made me reconsider so that I didnÆt need to feel the guilt and the shame um that I had and that it was ok the way it turned out and umģ
Interviewer: Yeah, so would you say maybe a picture that could be associated with the reframing would be someone sitting with a therapist or someone  [UNDERSCORE] showing support or
Interviewee: Yes, showing support um helping them to realize that there is more than one choice.
Interviewer: Yeah ok awesome.
So the goal of CBT many times is to reduce anxiety, so if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in oneÆs life what would you say it looks like?
Interviewee: Um having lived with it all of my life it is a little hard to say but anxiety would be someone talking to fast or doing too many things and not necessarily doing them well or not finishing them.
Anxiety is that knot in your stomach or in your chest that makes you feel like your heart is going to explode.
ItÆs your mind racing with thoughts so fast that you canÆt calm down.
I had that just this morning so.
Um and you just have to stop what youÆre doing, realize that you are out of control.
Sort of somehow get yourself distracted or change what you are doing to something that is healthier and get out of that mind frame.
Interviewer: Yeah and um whatÆs important for other patients to know?
Interviewee: About
Interviewer: About
Interviewee: anxiety
Interviewer: how anxiety can become a problem in someoneÆs life or um whatÆs important to know just for someone who is experiencing those things?
Interviewee: Its ok for you to get help.
You donÆt have to live with the fear.
That fear thatÆs stalking or inside of you that feels so strong thatÆs going to overwhelm you every single day, you donÆt have to live like that.
You donÆt have to feel that and itÆs not bad and itÆs not wrong to ask for help to to find that help or ask a trusted adult to help you find that adult that assistance.
Interviewer: Awesome and so could you tell me any skills or specific areas that CBT targets.
I know we talked about anxiety, but is there anything else that comes to mind.
Interviewee: Depression.
I know um post-traumatic stress disorder is also kind of part of the anxiety but that helps as well.
I donÆt know the answer whether or not CBT can solve problems in people who are genetically predisposed which my kids are and I am due to my momÆs history.
So thereÆs probably a psychiatric medicine type component that may need to be included and again there is no shame in that.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and so would you say that it targets thoughts feelings and actions.
Interviewee: YesInterviewer: And are there any questions you wished you would have asked before you started CBT or your daughter?
Interviewee: No I before... I was going through CBT before either of my kids started and I kind of landed to it not really knowing what it was and itÆs probably what has saved my life.
I grew up feeling suicidal the whole way through even as an adult.
Even though I never actually did anything, I never wanted to be alive.
CBT has helped me find more joy in everyday life and even though I still struggle and will probably continue struggling um I know I can choose not to let it overwhelm me.
I have been given some tools to deal with the pain, the frustration, the anxiety, all of the things that are wound up in anxiety and depression.
Interviewer: So would you say before starting it was really youģ your question is what is this because you were going into not really knowing what to expect.
Interviewee: I interviewed several therapists and counselors beforehand and at the time I was faculty at [LOCATION].
So I didnÆt want someone who was affiliated with [LOCATION] at first because I thought that it would be too humiliating and um IÆve had bad experiences with psychologists as a child.
Um tried some family therapy and it wasģ it was too much anger, too much pain, and it didnÆt do any good.
I was afraid of the stigma of going to see someone for your mental health, not mental health, but for your emotional wellbeing.
So really there was a women who incense burning in her room and she had Buddhist practically written everywhere and it was a big turn off and um you know the rooms here are comfortable.
They are not beautifully decorated you know, but theyÆve got nice pictures you know.
You know that you are in a safe place and a safe... the people IÆve met here are patient and thoughtful, positive, and um just helpful so.
Interviewer: And what is your involvement in your childÆs overall CBT therapy?
Interviewee: So her counselor or her psychologist lately like for the last several visits has invited me into the sessions maybe for 10-15 minutes to let her know what I think should be covered because sometimes my daughter forgets mention certain things or just flat out doesnÆt want to talk about it.
I donÆt know.
So she tries to get my perspective first and then I leave and go back to the waiting area and then they can discuss things.
Interviewer: Awesome and what would be useful for other parents to know that maybe have a child that is about to go into CBT or is in CBT?
Interviewee: Be patient.
Love your child no matter what.
Sometimes we are the cause of some of their problems and we donÆt realize it and hopefully the therapist or the counselor would let us know somehow.
Although there have been certain times where I would say something or do something I meant it in a way to keep my child safe or IÆm trying to protect her from something, but she doesnÆt have that perspective.
She feels like she is being restricted or um that IÆm being mean to her and so her counselor knew after talking with me individually sometimes with my daughter in the therapy and me out in a separate room quickly, I would let her know what my perspective was and she knew I wasnÆt trying to be a jerk.
I was trying to do the right thing for my child.
So that helped her be able to help my daughter realize that I was coming from a place of concern and she was possibly you know you got let the child feel the way they are going to feel, but help them realize that the parent has a different view of things and has different experiences and is trying to be helpful.
It opens up communication between the parent and the child.Interviewer: Yeah. So would you say it would be useful for parents to know to have open communication between the child and the therapist?
To be patient and stuff like that.
Interviewee: And if they have concerns that the therapist needs to know about to make sure that they are not afraid to talk to the therapist or you know to just you know touch them on the shoulder or something and say can I talk to for just a minute.
Tell me if IÆm taking this the wrong way and itÆs helpful for both the child and the parent.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely.
And have you read or heard any scientific research that has mentions CBT, and if so or if not do you think this something useful for us to mention in our videos?
Interviewee: Research on CBT.
I donÆt think I have which is unusual for me actually.
Um would it be useful?
It is always useful to back up what you say with research.
You donÆt necessarily need to say Millers, Smith, and Johnson at al. 1996 and their landmark study.
You donÆt have to cite it that way but in literature maybe suggest sources, reputable websites, and reputable sources of information whether itÆs printed or electronic that parents and/or kids can look at.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: ThatÆs always useful.
Always whatever you do, IÆm a scientist, you have to back up your claims otherwise its one personÆs opinion versus another.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and did you know about anybody elseÆs experiences of CBT any time in your life?
Interviewee: No
Interviewer: No, ok
Interviewee: I onlyģ I landed into CBT myself actually because I voluntarily went to Vista for three days.
I needed a time out because I was really going downhill fast so and um I actually found that I could help other people, other women who were struggling with suicidal thoughts.
I didnÆt know DBT, but I had some encouraging books that they could look at and things that were able to enhance sort of their view of themselves.
Interviewer psychology stuff so.
Interviewer: Yeah, so as I mentioned before we want to develop these video about CBT so we are kind of going to move on talking a little bit more detail about those.
So, thinking about the video, who would be in the video in your perspective?
What characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: What ages groups are you targeting?
Interviewer: So as of right now we are trying to make the video appeal to both the patients and their family so pretty much all age groups, but um yeah.
Interviewee: And is it just one video?
Interviewer: As of right now.
Interviewee: Um and at what point where would you being showing it?
Interviewer: So Ideally we would likeģ I mean it would be something that would be shown to patients and families right before they would start treatment to kind of better understand what they are going to be doing.
Interviewee: So not like a public service announcement type of thing.
Interviewer: Um no more so targeting people who are going into CBT.
Interviewee: Ok so an introduction to CBT.
Um how long will it be?
Interviewer: Um not sure.
Probably not like 20 minutes.
Probably something pretty concise, but enough information so people know what to expect.
Interviewee: So remind me your question.
Interviewer: Who would be in the video?
Interviewee: Oh boy!
Um in a world where everyone needs to be included, um you would have to involve some children maybe with different scenarios of how CBT is done.
I would break it intoģ do you do CBT on a little kid?
Interviewer: Um yeah
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Yeah I would say yeah.Interviewee: Becauseģ so my daughter sometimes plays games with my daughter.
My daughter is 13, so I know games can sometimes help a therapist reach a child or you now.
In terms of who would be in it, I would include kids of different ages, different races, male and female.
I know a lot of the psychologists are female, but it would be good to show you know a man working with probably a boy.
I know my daughter doesnÆt want to see anyone who is not a female.
So um you know thatÆs her thing.
Parents could be in a waiting room, but they could also be talking to the therapist.
You donÆt want to necessarily show the checking-out procedure of you know paying because thatÆs not CBT.
ThatÆs policy.
Got to pay for what you are getting.
Interviewer: Ok great!
What about nonhuman characters, animals, superheroes, do you think any of those would be appealing?
Interviewee: Well there are... ok so your mascot almost, sort of.
Interviewer: Well not necessarily.
It could just I mean for the superheroes that would just be another way to represent things.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: But this based on your perspective.
ItÆs what you think.
If you donÆt think that superheroes, animals, nonhumans should be involved  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: I know a lot of times they are effective marketing tools.
Would I put them in?
Probably not, but IÆm also not a marketer.
So I know in the real world there are emotional support animals that really could make an appearance.
For the younger kids, it would probably be useful to have something cartooning, not anime though.
ThatÆs a little to strange.
Something that is safe appearing, not something creepy or cringy you know.
You want a teddy bear.
Interviewer: Yeah, so really just the people that are really involved in the process like the kids, the parents, the therapist and stuff like that.
Interviewee: Yeahģ I donÆt know if you wouldģteachers donÆt usually get involved in?
Interviewer: Sometimes, it depends.
Interviewee: I donÆt know if I would include anything outside of nuclear family or grandparents.
It would be the people who would give consent.
It would the people who have legal authority over the child.
Interviewer: Yeah great.
Um so what about where they would talkģ what would be a good setting for the video or multiple settings?
Interviewee: Um IÆm a realist so you know to set the standard.
Show them a typical room.
Different therapists decorate a little differently.
If thereÆsģ if certain colors are meant to elicit certain feelings or um responses do that.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: I probably would not do one where thereÆs a two-way mirror involved because that is that would make anybody feel uncomfortable so.
ItÆs like IÆm being watched.
Interviewer: So really just like the therapist office would be the best setting.
Interviewee: Yeah because you donÆt want to sugarcoat it.
I mean you want to be realistic about it and itÆs not a miracle cure.
A lot of it is the therapist drawing you out or drawing your fears out to touch them without making you feel like you are on the burner.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: So I donÆt know.
Interviewer: Good!
And so yeah this is shaping up nicely.
What should be talked about in the videos and should there be specific questions asked and addressed in the videos?
Interviewee: I would ask the counselors or the psychologists that one.
I donÆtģ I donÆt know.
Umģ questions again so if itÆs a counselor talking with a child, IÆm trying to picture it in my head when I close my eyes, so um you know friendly opening questions like ōHow was your day to day?ö you know.
Did you have any so for performance anxiety you know, ōHow did your test go?ö Or ōHow did your presentation go?ö You know ask things that um... are relative to what they are going through.
If they are going to school ask then ask school related questions to sort of be the icebreakers.
Interviewer: YeahInterviewee: Um if they are working, umģyou know if you are talking about the adults being the patients um and not just the parents umģ is that part of the scope or is it?
Interviewer: ItÆs more so the perspective of the child as the patient but the parents are still involved.
Interviewee: Okģ so um you know if they have a lovey animal, you know a little lovey animal or a stuff animal that they bring with them you know, if itÆs not too corny you can ask how the lovey is doing or the stuff animal so.
Interviewer: Yeah, and should they ask about how it worked for other kids?
Interviewee: How who should ask?
Interviewer: Like should that a be like a question between maybe characters or should it be in the form of kind of a little snippet of an interview of kids explaining how its worked for them.
Interviewee: IÆm not completely sure they know what method is being used on them and IÆm not quite sure itÆs necessary that they know.
They just need something that works and helps them to uh navigate life better.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Do you think that there should be kids saying those things like its helped them, the feel better, and things of that sort?
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: What about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Um I donÆt think my daughter has done that.
I donÆt knowģ I donÆt know how to answer that one.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: I guess exposure to me in my situation means that uh theyģ like my counselor is uh just incredibly good.
If there is a day like I donÆt feel like talking, she draws me out easily and she knows how to get me to talk.
So for exposures she has me think of a memory and she has me put myģ whatÆs the word, not my real finger, my umģ psychological finger.
I donÆt know how to say that.
So that to me the exposure is bringing old moods out into the open.
Interviewer: Yeah and for some other kids the disorder may be putting them in a situation where they must face their fears or something thatÆs bothering them so do you think that would be beneficial to show in the video?
Interviewer: Ok, so um again thanks for coming to meet with us today.
So basically what weÆre doing here is weÆre a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists that are working on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy.
ItÆs a kind of therapy that, you know, you guys have been doing with your therapist or therapists.
But for this project we really want to develop, um, basically a few short educational videos that describe what cognitive behavior therapy is for children and their parents.
Saying ōcognitive behavior therapyö is kind of a mouthful, so from this point on IÆll just be saying CBT and thatÆs what IÆm referring to.
Um, kind of, so the first thing weÆre wondering is what comes to mind when you guys think of CBT?
Interviewee: Um, for me I would say that CBT is kind of a learning process of how to take some kind of behavior that is not quite acceptable or something that you want to work on and baby steps and step it to a place where you rather prefer it to be to get to an end point.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: I took it as helping you stop a behavior that you have trouble stopping yourself.
Interviewer: Ok, excellent.
Could you tell me what you guys know about CBT, so like, in your own words how would you explain it?
Interviewee: Um, for me CBT is a process of physical and or mental challenges to train yourself brain-wise to get to a place behavioral-wise, so youÆre trying in a way to shift your brain to make your brain and your body do correct behavior so that youÆre a happier brain person.Interviewee: IÆve always looked at it as a three step process of your thinking, your feelings, your behavior and you try to make somebody aware of their behavior and their feelings that they had when they had those behaviors, and the thoughts that cause those feelings.
And then you try to get them to change their thoughts so they can change their feelings, then change their behavior.
Interviewer: And um, you know, when you guys first came here and were learning about what kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what questions you had or maybe what you were feeling or thinking at that point about CBT?
Interviewee: Well, I mean, the time table would be one you know, what is the length of time, they think, my daughter would need to go through the therapy.
That was my biggest question.
And I know that with um, when you have the need for CBT.
I that it?
That for some people itÆs a lifetime commitment to changing those behaviors and stuff.
But, I wasnÆt sure how long the therapy lasts for.
That was one of the biggest questions I had, still donÆt know the answer to that.
Interview: Yeah thatÆs a good question, yeah.
Any other questions that you guys had coming in?
Interviewee: For me, itÆs different, IÆve been exposed to CBT since, our daughter is 12, so basically since she was 4.
So IÆve had a long process and experience with dealing with CBT.
Um, in the very beginning I would say mostly itÆs like, what do you expect of how long to, you canÆt predict changes but how long do you say we do this certain area of CBT before we either increase the difficulty or you say letÆs put that on the backburner and tackle this instead.
So to me itÆs like a stair system of how well you progress and how much you need to push further to progress further, because to me CBT is a stepping process of challenging yourself to be a little bit pushed to the edge so that you can reprogram to be challenged again, to go further so that you can be, get to the place that youÆre trying to get to.
Interviewer: So it sounds like you know.
Sorry
Interviewee: I just wanted to say, you I was trying to recall, you know how I was feeling with it, my daughterÆs need for therapy rose, I think, fairly quickly and sense of panic, I think, on our part sort of not understanding how it kicked in for her and this feeling of a little bit of helplessness and um trying to deal with it on our own, which is why we reached out for help obviously, but I had a little bit of a sense of panic, on my part, of wanting to be able to help my daughter and not understanding why it kicked in for her.Interviewer: Any other questions or anything you wanted to add on to that point?
Interviewee: For me, about CBT itself is that, um my husband and myself practice it as well so for us we didnÆt have the quite ōwhatÆs going on?ö the unfamiliarity with it.
So it was more of a process of, so now we start our child into getting to the step, so for me I had uh big um, I already had my feet in the water of the pool, I knew what it was kind of about, but it is, it can be overwhelming to figure out where your starting place is.
To feel like whatÆs the thing you need to like put your little finger in first to like, to have a jumping off point.
And sometimes, sometimes you have to pick and choose where you start that point too.
For the difficulty of the person, for the child thatÆs going through it they may not be able to handle that and we have always done like a fear hierarchy which help you a basis of what the um the things you need to work on.
I think that helped a lot with designing the CBT to then know where your increments are to have to, you can push you enough, this is not too much but it pushes you enough to get to be at a more stable place of umģ you know a focused place of that youÆve at a stepping stone point to step off and go now I can breathe for a second and think ōwhere is my next place I gotta jump off and work and hurdle and kind of get over.ö
Interviewer: Ok.
Um, so was there anything really quick off that question is there anything that when you came into therapy you really wanted to know about CBT?
ItÆs sort of a similar question but
Interviewee: Um, I donÆt, initially for CBT I guess we wanted to know what, um what kinda the prognosis is, what like does everyone like, you know, succeed and flourish under doing CBT or is it only certain types of personalities or types of challenges you have.
So, we kind of wanted to know, as CBT as a option, it is for everybody kind of thing?
Or is it just like certain people who have certain kind of things have certain challenges, is it just for them.
So that was kind of well maybe a curve that we wanted to know or really unfamiliar to know what type people or does everybody you know like is everybody getting the flu shot or not you know
Interviewer: right exactly
Interviewee: so that was something we thought about in the beginning.
Interviewer: Absolutely
Interviewee:
Interviewer: Ok, How much did you guys know about CBT from things like movies or tv, the internet, or just other people.
Um like how had you heard about it in the media or stuff like that.
Interviewee: Not very much.
IÆve seen more movies or information more about the conditions of people who have like problem and need help but, the focus on like a CBT-type solution I donÆt think has been really out there much as far as the movie industry and newspaper articles and such.
I think now it is being more of a go to thing for doctors and for people thinking of it and so it is coming out why you are making the video people are turning to it more than people in the past.
Well this person has this condition, this persona has that condition and what do we do drug wise or therapy wise.
And now itÆs like the CBT is getting bigger poster board so people can say ōoh wow, how bout thatö.
So I think now its getting more of a claim of therapy to do.
Interviewer: okInterviewee: It was, I mean for me with it just from an academic side of things, it was close enough to the areas I which I have studied in the past that you know I have bits and pieces of it through academic journals or professional papers and things to that nature, um but um, not anything that as far as um popular media is concerned that I would have gotten, or that is sort of out there that I was familiar with from that area.
Interviewer: Ok, anything from like friends or like other sources like people, word of mouth type sources
Interviewee: I donÆt think so as far as for CBT as far as um that as an option.
I havenÆt really sat down with mothers or parents and gone like ōthis is what you need to do for your childö um I have another family member who is just starting to possibly go through that process themselves, so IÆm kind of in a way educating them.
I donÆt think itÆs always out there where people can go ōletÆs turn to CBTö and I still donÆt think itÆs like right of the tongue for people to try.
Interviewee: My sisters a schoolteacher and so she certainly provided when this became an issue for un provided a lot of information for us and one of my sons has dyslexia and the person who had worked with him in his elementary, early elementary, we had talked to her and she had guided me toward to trying to see through you all CBT and she sort of explained sort of what the process was gonna be.
ItÆs another counselor but itÆs not the area that she works.
Interviewer: Ok, makes sense.
Um thinking about your experience with CBT, were there any parts of therapy that were confusing to you guys?
Interviewee: Um, I donÆt think anything is confusing for CBT, other than it may not always be a clear picture of like how long you may have to go through a certain element of it because you really unless you start that particular thing with the child you donÆt know if this will take a day or two weeks, or so that part will always be kind of cloudy because there is no black and white, everybody is different, everybodyÆs brain works differently, everybody has more challenges in some ways or others, so I think the time frame is really something that canÆt really be nailed down.
Interviewer: yeah
Interviewee: With the exception of the time issue, I thought that both the, uh, psychiatrists that we initially saw and then the counselor on the first visit I thought explained quite well what the process is gonna be.
Interviewer: ThatÆs good
Interviewee: As far as my stand point, and IÆm not sure for my daughters but
Interviewer: Right, ok.
What do you think you guys would tell someone who is just about to start CBT.
Interviewee: I think I would tell them that a good worthwhile tool that will really aide them in getting a faster result than normal, our children both have CBT and they both have medication, so um IÆve seen medication and the CBT work together work the best, but if I had to choose one or the other I think the CBT by itself alone will get you results because youÆre pushing the brain to challenge and overcome that obstacle and make it be okay and then you picture the next one and make it be okay so youÆre kind of in a way, in my head, reprogramming your main brain for the rest of your life.
And so you have ups and downs, youÆre always gonna have ups and downs but the CBT gives you the skills to know ōok now this is just a different challenge of my obstacleö CBT shows that ōIÆm gonna do it this wayö and get through that.
It gives you, I think, hope to like ōok I can live my life and be normalö so to speak, again, because you have CBT as your backup.
If I need it itÆs there and you have the tools for it.
Interviewer: Ok.Interviewee: With the exception of you know encouraging someone to be patient and work through the system.
Again I think my circumstances coming into it was more of a panic of not knowing what to do and wanting, and having the faults of always wanting to fix things, and knowing that something canÆt be fixed overnight.
Interviewer: Ok.
Try and think of three words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it.
Um and what would those words be, itÆs kind of a hard question but.
Interviewee: LetÆs see, CBT, first just thinking about it would be, I would say, challenging.
Um I would even say somewhat overwhelming because itÆs just a different mindset which youÆre not really familiar with what to do and to get sometimes when you work with CBT, a particular area it might be a very wide depth of personal time for physical stuff, whatever you have to do that part of it so, challenging, overwhelming, and I would say um also uplifting that thereÆs an option that kids can do to help themselves.
If they learn the tools of the CBT that they will always be able to instigate them when they need them and be able to move up and say thatÆs just another challenge that they are able or have the ability to go ōthis is just what I do.ö
Our kids started at four, our daughter started at four and our son started at about seven, so it just like in our household itÆs like itÆs just another challenge; itÆs just another thing we gotta do, and use your CBT to figure out where weÆre gonna combat this.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: Um, I would start with hope.
ThereÆs something that could address what the issue is, um introspection.
Yeah I feel like both my wife and I and our child had to think about our behaviors and why we are doing the behaviors we are doing at home and how they are contributing to my daughterÆs behavior.
And um discipline, that um you got to learn to do your exercises or your process over and over again whether you need it or not at that very particular period of time
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: So um, discipline to um do the behavior
Interviewer: Ok.
Are there any pictures that come to mind when you think of those words or CBT?
Speaker1 ¢ To me just from being in therapy so much all the time with the children, I think of holding hands or a hand reaching out to grab another hand because itÆs like your giving a tool, a way of lie, a way to combat something that can be overwhelming, so somebodyÆs helping you, helping hand to lift you up and get you to that next step.
Interviewee: I like that, thatÆs good.
Um, I would also, um think I mean one of things that my daughter has said you know coming here has helped her is that she said she doesnÆt feel alone and that she has um you know a realization now that um other kids that she might not know is going through the same thing and that there is someone here that can listen and help her and stuff like that so, um I donÆt know if thatÆs a picture but like not being alone.
So however you might want to display that.
Interviewer: Um, so the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety.
If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life what would you say?
Interviewee: I would say anxiety would become a problem in your life if it affects, interferes with your normal, daily, ritual, routine lifestyle.
If it becomes that anxiety is the bigger beast in the day versus your normal chores, life, day thatÆs where CBT can come in ad go ōletÆs stop that and eliminate it and get you back to kind of a normal level of ups and downsö Everyone has ups and downs, youÆre always going to but CBT helps you bring down the anxiety and get you on an even keel so you just deal with normal life.Interviewee: IÆd probably use the term that usually you feel anxiety you feel powerless.
Powerless over whatever certain things that may be causing you anxiety or powerless that you donÆt know what to do about the behavior that is manifesting from that.
Not feeling you have the power
Interviewer: Ok, yeah.
Um, is there anything else that might be important for other patients to know how anxiety is becoming a problem in their life?
Interviewee: Um, I think sometimes as an individual you might not always understand and see the anxietyÆs being overwhelming, sometimes its family members or people closest to you that give you a wakeup call or kind of an intervention that you need to have help with your anxiety.
Um, sometimes its hard for the individual to be able to see [UNDERSCORE].
Um, it kind of sometimes they have to go to rock bottom before they can go wait a minute I really need some help somewhere else because my anxiety is overwhelming and taking over my life.
ōI feel I have no lifeö, kind of thing.
Interviewee: The uh, you know weÆve had to look at our daughter, weÆve had to look at our family, but we have access to both of those areas.
My daughter still feels, I mean she has anxiety, also though, at school, with teachers and with fellow students.
We donÆt have access to those really and I donÆt know, I donÆt have a suggestion on how do you get access that, but I have gone to talk to her teachers but um.
Interviewer: um could you guys tell me if there are
Interviewee: I think CBT targets the brains ability to, if something bad happens, give you a better perspective or give you a way out.
If you use CBT the right way you are able to overcome obstacles that normally with the anxiety brain would hold you back.
So CBT gives you the tools and the ability to push away the stuff and go ōokay letÆs tackle this and um the æweÆre gonna get this doneÆ attitude.ö
Interviewee: Would you ask the question again?
Interviewer: Sure, um any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: Um, faulty thinking and trying to recognize when youÆre not um where your thinking a situation is one thing but itÆs not really and then the ramifications of that.
I think faulty thinking and recognition of the behaviors that youÆre doing.Interviewer: Ok, um so what was your involvement in CBT for your kids and what would you think would be useful for other parents to know?
Interviewee: Um, IÆve been involved with our kinds as far as kind of the ōbrainstormerö to help figure out what challenges need to be addressed, to be the reminder to ōyou need to do this part of your therapyö, ōthis is what you need to do on a daily basis in case you forgetö, to be somebody who is there to also help instigate some of the behavior to um to get it solved, sometimes you have to do something with the child in order to get the behavior to move forward you have to put them in a scenario.
Like our son had um, being late for school really upset him so we purposely have been like ok IÆm like 5 minutes late, you know two minutes late, five minutes late, you know twice a week so to like push him and you have to be part of the fixing process as a parent to go itÆs gonna be ups and downs what you need to do but you have to do multiple steps to help the child sometimes because theyÆre children not adults they canÆt do some of these things on their own that they have struggles with and anxieties, so you have to either put them in the scenario that makes them anxious and you look like being late or take them to a place or thing where it challenges them so theyÆre challenged enough but not too much.
So itÆs kind of all in a way caregiver as a parent, youÆre that way as their anxiety brain CBT coach too æcause to push them from what you learned from your psychiatrist or psychologist or both.
Um, but yet you have to regulate it so that they can move forward enough.
Interviewee: I like the description of it as a coach.
Trying to encourage and uh, IÆve tried to help, you know debrief with her after her sessions and try understand what she has talked about and try to hold her accountable and to see if sheÆs doing her exercises, how often have you done the behavior, but try to do that in a nonthreatening and comfortable way for her so that she can feel comfortable telling me.
You know if sheÆs done a behavior that sheÆs trying to avoid doing, I like the reference of coach because I can relate to that term.
Interviewee: Because we are, as parents, we all coach them in some way whether itÆs manners, or behaviors or anxiety.
Interviewee: But you know, with a coach you canÆt always encourage, you have to instruct.
Interviewee: Discipline
Interviewee: And help them to become disciplined and stuff so you know I like that term.
Interviewee: It could be a picture behindTER
Interviewer: Yeah.
Have you read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
And the second part of that is, is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Would that be useful?
Interviewee: Yes I have heard and researched and read from books and or article through the internet and what not about CBT because it was, itÆs the more knowledge you gain then you know better you use the tool, so to speak.
I think it would be helpful to at least get a little snippet of statistics of how much success rate that you get with CBT that it would be like it this was proven through whatever studies that it is an option that does work and they have proof that it does so itÆs like you should at least try it, because itÆs not, it has a really good success rate for people living their lives.
You know?
The way they want to live again.Interviewee: I think it would be helpful, although, well first of all, IÆve read a lot about it even before it was needed and um but you know, it would be helpful for parents if they have an anxiety over this then they could go somewhere, whether itÆs a website or a hand out or whatever you want to do.
Like a reading list or you know recommended readings you know to help direct them, so you know not wondering aimlessly through the internet and running across helpful or unhelpful information.
You know it would be better, I would think, that if you all as a group felt that there was articles or other level of sophistication those articles are that a parent could go, if they wanted to, to read more and stuff.
Interviewer: Um, did you guys know about someone elseÆs experience with CBT?
Um and was it positive or negative and overall what would be useful for others to know?
We kind of touched on it a little bit already.
Interviewee: For us, um, personal experience our self for us as parents to our children so it was easier for us to go jump into this CBT because itÆs just a way of getting tools and whatnot, for the life to com.
And I think, uh, the CBT itself is a process that is needed and adults need to know about it enough so they have that option to give it to their children; give that positive hope.
Interviewee: I had uh, where people have gone through it but not in depth of what they had done.
I did not hear anything negative about it so I just assumed it was positive.
Interviewer: Ok, um so like I was saying, we want to develop a few videos about CBT so now IÆm going to ask a few questions more about the videos.
Um, so first weÆll need to decide who will be in the video, so any ideas of characters we should include?
Not specific characters but like, you know, humans, animals.
Like broadly speaking.
Interviewee: Well, I think that um you get two target audiences here, the adults and the parents.
I think itÆs easier to do toward the children because if you do it towards the children the parents will, the parents will watch kidsÆ stuff more than kids will watch parents stuff.
And so I think having a video toward your child, thatÆs going to inform the parents also.
And if youÆre dealing with children who I think maybe who are pre-puberty, you know having uh, nonhumans sometimes they can relate better than somebody theyÆre actually seeing and you know?
Umģ Again I think that itÆs easier to do something toward a younger audience and anybody older is going to understand it versus you know if somebodyÆs younger they might not understand if you do it toward a target audience thatÆs older.
Interviewee: I agree I would do, it, something that might catch younger kids to even older ones like almost like an anime or the characters of people, real people but in like a cartoon kind of fashion so that itÆs engaging enough that youÆll get different areas of groups from young kids to teens and whatnot.
TheyÆll watch it and a parent like you said, will always watch what theyÆre kids are doing.
I would keep it more humanlike versus animal-like because itÆs more, youÆre relating to a human character versus like ōthe bearö or you know ōthe treeö or something thatÆs inanimate or something thatÆs living but not humanlike, I think might not come across for the kids to go ōoh that character is just like meö.
So if itÆs more human related I feel like itÆs more like oh that little girl is like me, you know, kind of thing.
You know thatÆs something I think thatÆs like
.Interviewee: The uh, yeah I like that idea of like a cartoon person.
I mean the only, sometimes, issue you get with, if you have an actual person is that a child might say ōthatÆs not meö.
And so if itÆs a cartoon character theyÆre going to listen to what that person theyÆre not going to immediately not associate with that person.
Interviewee: You can make that character out to be very versatile as far as ethnicity and character and clothes and hair that you can go with a broad spectrum that a lot of people could identify with that character.
Interviewee: I think a lot of if youÆre trying to do a video is, what is that main age group that youÆre trying; that you think is going to be watching that video.
But I would encourage you that whatever that age group is that you think is going to be your target audience, I would go just a type younger because people can always see down they canÆt always see up.
And I think uh, and could just be my slant on this but, you know you donÆt want to show them a video that they canÆt relate to because thatÆs only going to make them feel more powerless.
I just think that a lot of it is feeling powerless of you know handling your circumstances or situations and stuff, but it needs to be something that theyÆre going to feel comfortable with.
Interviewer: Do you think, in general, parents, friends, doctor, do you think those people should be characters in the video other than the main child or animal or the main character?
Interviewee: I think so, because if you have some authority figures in there as far as a doctor or a psychologist or psychiatrist.
Somebody or even a teacher or a counselor at school, if you have a figure like that in there, it also might give them an idea of like where else they can get help or where else people can find the tools to learn about CBT, is the caregivers, the teachers, because that gives them focus instead of just the family or the kids or the peers.
You know, you kind of need the more well-rounded picture of what life is anyway.
I think that would add to it.
Interviewee: I feel like, what you had described earlier about the holding hands and being together and stuff.
I think that the more of the influencers on the child thatÆs causing them anxiety which would be self, home, school, friends, doctors, counselors.
I would think that you would want to portray within that, you know to help them see that this is the world which you know, IÆm seeking this therapy through.
Interviewee: Because you have to have a whole picture
Interviewee: Yeah, thatÆs right.
Interviewee: to kind of see their whole environment thatÆs itÆs going to add, come into and be a part of.
It gives them hope that they can use it in all parts of their life
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: And building off of that, you know, we are trying to decide where theyÆll talk, where this video will be set.
So you know, home, school, doctorÆs office, somewhere outside, like a park.
Any ideas or inclinations towards those?
Interviewee: I kind of see maybe being in an outdoor kind of area, so it seems like itÆs a very, um, itÆs not a stifling kind of conversation and whoever theyÆre talking to or talking about, itÆs like theyÆre outdoor or an activity thatÆs very; theyÆre on the edge of whatÆs happening in the real world.
A soccer game or some type of thing theyÆre on an edge talking about this and real life passes you by, it goes on, and continues, but weÆre here in this outdoor world and weÆre talking about whatÆs happening to me.Interviewee: I think that unless youÆre going to do a montage of home, school, friends, doctors office, I would do a neutral site in essence whether thatÆs outdoors or something that is not one of them.
Again I think the whole process of this is this isnÆt just something you do at a doctorÆs office, this isnÆt just something you do at home, and this isnÆt just something you do at school.
So if the setting of that is something that recognizes one of those main areas, I think it takes away from the notion that, but if you have a neutral place thatÆs outside or something thatÆs not one of those main areas.
Unless you want to do any.
Interviewee: Like if you did do it in that way, I would think that it would help show that it encompasses all areas of your life.
It will help you fix all the different areas of your life, if you do choose to do like different scenarios of places.
Like it could help you everywhere.
Interviewee: Right.
I mean I would think that you would either want to try to include as many or one thatÆs not one of them.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: We give you a 50/50 choice.
LAUGHTER
- Um, So the next thing is what um would they talk about?
WeÆve already talked about this with the first set of questions, so generally what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer?
Interviewee: Um, I think possible maybe the characters can talk about how they feel, you know whatÆs making them feel so; looking for answer kind of thing.
And the CBT could be like this is something IÆve heard, IÆve read, or IÆve done and it happens like this and how it helps you so that and when thereÆs a problem scenario of ōIÆm feeling sadö or ōmy life is this, this, thisö and then you have the other friend, or person, or doctor whoever talked to them and know this is an option to help that.
So, for me itÆs like feeling-based of your emotions will dictate how your brain is working and how you are living with your anxiety will cause you to have the emotion and so if they talk about the emotions, everybody has those feelings and so the other person the characterÆs talking to can say ōwell I feel that, or understand that, and this is what IÆve found, and this is what I doö if itÆs like a similar kind of peer like two kids talking about like ōoh I do this too.ö
Two kids who know one already has CBT in them, one doesnÆt, ōYou seem really sad,ö you know, ōwhatÆs going on with you?ö And they talk a little bit and say ōWell, IÆve done thisö Scenario kind of thing.
Interviewee: Yeah I think just going back to the basics of ōwhy am I here?ö ōWhat is this?ö ōHow would this help?ö
Interviewer: ok.
Yeah that makes sense.
So, um, the next question we have I have some pictures to show you guys.
Basically we want to decide how the video is going to look, so I have some examples I can pull up here.
IÆll be able to turn it around for you.
Yeah, letÆs seeģ So um weÆre hoping to do um six videos, fifteen minutes long, um featuring multiple and diverse children, content supplemented by animated elements and motion graphics.
So we have three options.
IÆll kind of you just you guys look this over, read this over, and IÆll show you the next two as wellģ So just let me know when youÆre done with that one.
And just generally thinking like it, if you donÆt like it, and then weÆll talk about the three of them at the end.
So this is the first one, this is the second oneģInterviewee: Uh, what would this represent?
Interviewer: I think that these are potential characters in this style.
This wouldnÆt be the character this would just be the style of animation.
So this is the last oneģ So again I just want to hear if there is any style here that you guys like or donÆt like.
Interviewee: Can I see the first one again?
Interviewer: Of course.
So youÆve got the comic art with live action, the vector art, and then the line art, which is live action with art and stuff sort of drawn around it.
So, any elements you feel like you like or donÆt like, style you like or donÆt like.
Any suggestions about it in general.
Interviewee: I like the comic book, the third one, the comic book blended.
Interviewer: The comic art blended.
Interviewee: With, if youÆre going with a certain target based off age, because Marvel the characters and stuff thatÆs out and about, you will hit kids who wonÆt care, wonÆt think about, wonÆt be interested, ōthatÆs not going to help meö that kind of thing, that you may not get because that is a wide category kind of the preteen age thatÆll be like you know ōitÆs not cool to have therapyö kind of thing, but this might be like ōhey thatÆs kind of coolö.
I think you might reach some of those boys or some characters that are like
Interviewer: like preteen age.
Interviewee: I think that would be good for that/
Interviewer: And again anything that you like or donÆt like in general.
Interviewee: The uh I like this expect for I can see it carry toward boy rather than the boys and I would be concerned.
If it this type of comic it could be a little dark.
And I would be concerned with that.
The second one um
Interviewer: The vector art
Interviewee: yeah Um, these almost look to like childish
Interviewee: Right
Interviewee: You have something thatÆs interacting like this that you would have
Interviewer: So like live action with characters, as well.
Interviewee: live action with characters would be, I think, a little bit more suitable on it.
Interviewee: Think that would probably go more with the general if youÆre getting a big age gap, I think that one would hit both sides.
For girls and boys.
Interviewee: And with all three, I donÆt know what yawlÆs target age wise is.
I mean, I would think with the elementary age kids that this would be; where youÆre getting both.
And again I; there was other comic where I thought were more female friendly and not dark-looking.
And it might be; the first one I thought, I personallyģ
Interviewer: The line art
Interviewee: Unless, I personally think itÆs distracting.
Interviewee: Yeah, I donÆt think it works with what the message would be about.
Interviewee: Yeah IÆm having a little trouble with that one.
There could be benefits for, in my view, the latter two.
But I like the ones where thereÆs maybe a child in cartoons interacting with each other.
Or where you would have a combination of those two.
Or if there was something on the third one that could appeal to a wide enough audience
Interviewee: Not being a super character like a super hero character kind of thing, be more like a different a pet.
Interviewee: Because, you know, my daughter is and her friends and stuff are still into dolls and theyÆre not, they donÆt follow any of the super heroes and stuff but my son on the other hand doesnÆt want anything to do with dolls.
Interviewee: It is that way because I have a 10 year old son whoÆs like all into that and my 12 year old daughter is like ōehö you know, still dolls and stuff and what not.
And you have to be, to make a video, you kind of have to be somewhere in the middle or you have a set base of boy girl kind of things, where kind of just do both and gear it toward the patientInterviewee: I guess if IÆm giving feedback on um, as far as whatever the end product is to make sure that it is something that all kids would feel comfortable with and not just males or females.
Interviewer: And that lends well in to what I am; this next question is what do you think the take home message from the video should be?
Interviewee: I would say that the take home message would be like in a way they always go like ōask your doctor about so and soö but it would be like a way they show CBT can be to help and that itÆs a tool.
You want the child to be able to go like ōman I could use that, I could really; that would help me a lot.ö
You see, if it gives them an answer as far as something that connects to them and an option I think that thatÆs kind of what the CBT, for me, needs to be.
It needs to be like ōI want to try that; that looks good; it might workö
Interviewee: That theyÆre not alone, um, with working through this.
That thereÆs a team.
I know my daughter the feedback she gave me early on was um she didnÆt realize how nice everyone would be and helpful everyone would be.
When somebodyÆs coming into this thereÆs a lot of anxiety because I think that um, well I donÆt know so IÆll just talk about my daughterÆs experience but she thought she was in trouble, sheÆs here because sheÆs in trouble.
And so I think letting a person know that thereÆs a process, this is normal, youÆre not doing this alone, um thereÆs a team of us together, the holding the hand type of approach.
Interviewee: And the kids themselves, it think because they feel different, they feel strange, or weird, or they have all these emotions and why is it that Billy whoÆs next to me doesnÆt do that.
So itÆs like they need to be able to have something to discern to pull them going like ōHey Billy may not be like that, but Bobby isö Kids are out there like you, youÆre not alone.
Interviewee: Right and like she just didnÆt realize and then um when, um I donÆt know what they said to her in the first couple sessions but she came away saying ōWell I thought it was just meö
Interviewee: You do because I am a person who has that so I can go like you just feel like wow youÆre just so off and everybody else is so right and you feel so different.
If you can make that kid go like ōwow IÆm not that different and there people like me and they can help meö Get that message to them.
Interviewee: Right and like you know a sense of hope that there is a process and if you are willing to work through the process you can feel more comfortable and not feel as much anxiety about it.
Not alone
Interviewer: Ok.
And finally is there anything that I missed or anything important that I didnÆt ask about that you think is relevant to making CBT videos?
Interviewee: I donÆt have any additional comment.
Interviewee: I think itÆs all basically itÆs just the videos that show that thereÆs help for the kids, you know, itÆs an option and let the parents know as well as the kids that just the education of it because some people may not have that out there of ōitÆs an optionö.
And thatÆs the big point itÆs an option and let the people know ōhey IÆm going to try itö
Interviewee: How long were you going to make the video, were you all targeting; have you all thought about how long youÆre going to make the video for?
The length of it.Interviewer: Um, according to the slides it said 6 videos, 15 minutes each.
So that could be different elements of CBT.
Not quite sure, thatÆs kind of what our focus group is trying to figure out like the when, what, how, where.
The whole aspect of it so I donÆt think anything is set in stone yet.
Interviewee: Just I would always take into consideration you donÆt want to make it more than 22 minutes and you want it more than 7 because you can usually get messages across to people better in that little time frame of 7 to 22 minutes for kids and for adults for that matter.
Interviewer: Note takers is there anything you needed clarified or questions on?
Interviewer2: I guess toward the beginning with the question saying like ōWhat did you want to know about CBT when you first started?ö You said you didnÆt have any you could think of, so maybe now that weÆve talked about it
Interviewee: Maybe the only thing would be about it would be just the time table, but with the realization of it, for some people itÆs a long process.
But just uh.
Interviewee: But a general idea would be nice.
Interviewee: a general idea yeah.
Interviewee: Like typically with this happens with this kid happensģ You canÆt be specific but you can go like you know, ōIf you work a little harder at this particular challenge, then you know you do it five days a week versus one youÆre gonna move further ahead.ö
Those things that we do in our own sessions, the more you do that the faster youÆre gonna progress.
Those kind of things would be helpful to know that the more you do it, the more you practice and do your homework and what not, and youÆll get there faster.
Interviewer: Anything else?
IÆll go grab [NAME] and we can let you guys get out of here?Interviewer1: Okay so thank you so much for meeting with us today.
Uh, IÆm working with a team of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy, uh, which is the type of therapy that heÆs been receiving here at our clinic.
Um, for this project, we want to develop a few, short educational videos about cognitive behavioral therapy um for children and their parents that are coming in to receive it.
Um, and since cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful, weÆll be referring to it as CBT from now on.
Interviewee: Gotcha
Interviewer1: Um, so to start, please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT.Interviewee: ģ uh ģ so, um, in childrenÆs or in general?
Interviewer1: You can do in general and then for children.
Interviewee: Uh ģ well, uh, I could only answer the part that I was, um ..., concerned about my son
Interviewer1: Okay
Interviewee: So IÆm not sure if IÆll be able to give the general, you know, explanation
Interviewer1: No, thatÆs fine
Interviewee: So in my sonÆs case, it was like that, um, something was holding him to actually flourish and be able to ,uh ģ um , express his feelings, his thoughts, be able to defend himself.
So I wasnÆt sure if itÆs um self-confidence, is it uh ADD because my daughter has ADHD.
So in he had shown some anxiety, um, so thatÆs why we thought okay, we need to have him to be tested.
So, and then people tested and they said he has anxiety.
So we have gotten maybe, 2 or 4 sessions so it hasnÆt been a long time so itÆs been mostly to know, uh, put it on to know what heÆs going through.
It hasnÆt gotten a lot of, uh um ģ therapy.
Interview 1: Right.
Interviewee: To help him.
So, I know um, how much of the therapy he has gotten, itÆs been really helping him move forward because one of the things that, um, has changed since he started the therapy is that my daughter moved out.
So, that component, I think that helped to not to be stressed out.
So, um, he doesnÆt actually do a couple of uh that the doctor asked him to do to help him with anxiety.
He says ōno I donÆt feel any anxietyö so IÆm not sure that um ģ at this point, um, what he has gotten through the therapy has helped him
Interviewer1: But you think the therapy will help him express him and make him bounded?
Interviewee: Bounded to himself, yeah, and if he, if there are things that keep him, that hold him back, so he will be able to find a way to fight it instead of just ignoring it.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, could you tell me what you know about CBT or how you would explain what CBT is?
Interviewee: Unfortunately, I wonÆt be able to answer that.
Interviewer1: Um, so when you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what kind of questions you had or what you would want to know about CBT?
Interviewee: It never came up, actually, in the conversation, the cognitive behavioral therapy.
So as I said, we had some concern about his memory, about his forgetting stuff, being able.
So thinking that it was ADD, it actually to calm and have him tested.
So uh, it never crossed my mind that okay, this is something that I need to go uh study because it never uh ģ um, portrayed as cognitive difficulty.
So I said okay, he has anxiety, so thatÆs why itÆs a little bit difficult for me to talk about it in a [
]
Interviewer1: Um, So did you know anything about CBT from like the movies or the TV or anything?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer1: No?
Um, and then are there any parts of the therapy so far that are confusing to you?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer1: No?
Um, what would you want to tell someone who is about to start CBT?
Interviewee: So um, I want to just make it clear.
So heÆs getting the therapy for his anxiety.
So is this considered to be CBT?
Because maybe, as we had our session, the student came and talk about it and I thought it was about anxiety.
Interviewer1: So, this like basically the CBT is to help him fight the anxiety.
Likes itÆs the type of therapy that helps him combat the anxiety.Interviewee: Anxiety, okay.
Okay, so as I said, because itÆs been really 4 or 5 sessions, and 2-3 sessions, it was just for the doctor to know him and understand, you know, what are the things that bother him, uh, so itÆs been maybe 2-3 sessions that he has given him some techniques to help him with anxiety.
So one of them was like breathing technique.
If he feels like that, okay, heÆs in a situation that heÆs not able to focus and he feels heÆs going to pick his nails because thatÆs one of the things he, uh, one of the things that he does when heÆs anxious.
HeÆs very tense, he actually picks his fingers, uh so, so he, the doctor told him try this uh technique.
But he asked him to do it every day so he would become more comfortable.
And then when the situation comes back that heÆs anxious, it just comes naturally to him to think about okay, what I need to do?
So um, so I think that was helpful because um, he doesnÆt know he has anxiety.
He doesnÆt uh call it anxiety.
He says okay, this is, okay this is what I feel, how I feel.
But I think uh knowing [
] and practicing, so itÆs like training your brain.
So itÆs that, so in that sense I see the benefit of, you know, therapy that heÆs getting.
So thatÆs one technique that, um uh, actually heÆs trying to actually do it every day and um.
So the second session that he had, I wasnÆt in the room so it was only him with the doctor but then I asked my son so it was like uh if there was a situation that he felt like that he doesnÆt like it so he needs to think about it and come up with the question so that why IÆm feeling that way?
Is there any uh, is this my assumption?
Or there could be another reason for what things are happening.
So instead of thinking the worst scenario, so he could think okay maybe there was something that caused this situation and itÆs not difficult.
For example.
If my mom is not picking up the phone, he might think oh there is an accident and that makes him to be anxious.
Instead of that, he can think okay, what are the other reasons might be that my mom is not picking up the phone?
So itÆs with that, the things that might make him anxious, he could start asking questions and instead of choosing the first answer that comes to his mind, that oh maybe an accident happened, oh the worst thing that could happen, he could think about other scenarios.
So I think thatÆs helpful.
ThatÆs uh, IÆm not saying that, uh, she gets into those situations because I ask him every day, did you actually need to sit down and think about the situation because you were anxious?
He said no. But at least, I think itÆs good that he knows these are the things that he can use to help him to fight whatever heÆs going through
Interviewer1: Right, so you think the CBT helps with the techniques and helps him with his thinking to be more rational?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah exactly
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, so think of three words that describe how you feel about the kind of therapy.
Um, what would those words be?
Interviewee: Um ģ the type of therapy heÆs getting?
Interviewer1: Mmhmm
Interviewee: Okay ģ um ģ thoughtful, calm ģ um less impulsive?
Interviewer1: Thoughtful, calm and less impulsive?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer1: Okay.
And if you were to add a picture to each of these words, what would that be?
Interviewee: For calm, IÆd put uh, I would say ģ river?
Or ocean?
Interviewer1: Mmmhmm
Interviewee: Um ģ
Interviewee: For thoughtful, um ģ I canÆt come up with anything for thoughtful and
Interviewer1: Less impulsive
Interviewee: Less impulsive.
Um, picture of two people.
One is being shouting or being aggressive and the second person, uh taking his time,
Interviewer1: Okay.
Interviewee: Not responding right away.Interviewer1: Um, so the goal of cognitive behavioral therapy, or CBT, is to reduce anxiety.
So if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life, what would you say?
Interviewee: Uh, I, well, at least in my sonÆs case, I would say that, um, it could impact, if theyÆre at the school, it could impact their school definitely.
ThatÆs what IÆve seen.
Uh, they forget, uh, what some of the important things that they need to do.
Uh, they become less organized and uh ģ some parents might look at it as oh, maybe my kid uh is not that smart or you know, it-itÆs um, they might miss that okay, this their grades, itÆs might be something that they could address it by simple therapy.
I think in our case, that was what I was seeing.
My son uh is very smart and so, but then I saw his scores going down, so that was alarming and I think so what could be the problem that makes him uh, you know that uh, that has caused his grades to go down.
So by addressing it and finding out, okay what is it that is causing it then you can uh seek the right treatment or right therapy to actually help your kid to feel good about themselves because at some point, my kid mmm could tell me oh maybe IÆm not that smart or maybe this or maybe that.
But by taking away, by helping reduce the anxiety through the therapy, then you would show the kid okay, itÆs not you, or itÆs not, itÆs not something that um, itÆs not something that you cannot fight.
ItÆs something that can be addressed by simple therapy and then, because kids are going through a lot of things and you want to make sure that uh you address things that you can address.
And then help the kids to uh actually flourish and get the confidence that they thought they donÆt have it because um because what anxiety impacted in their school or in their uh, everyday um um activity that they have, with their teachers with their, you know, friends.
So I think itÆs very important that if the kid has anxiety that we diagnose and take it seriously.
Interviewer1: Okay, so you first started noticing it with his, like schoolwork?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer1: And also, you like wanted him to know that it wasnÆt him, it was something outside of him that you could fix through therapy.
Interviewee: Yes, exactly.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that the therapy targets?
So like thoughts, feelings, or actions?
Interviewee: Um I feel, um, I think um feelings definitely.
Feeling, actions, and I think all three, um get um, affected by, by the right therapy, definitely.
And my son actually gets OT, uh occupational therapy as well.
So, heÆs, heÆs doing that therapy for more than, I think, since beginning of August.
So itÆs been, itÆs been four months.
So the techniques that heÆs getting from OT even though itÆs not uh
Interviewer1: CBT?
Interviewee: YesS ItÆs still, itÆs very helpful.
So itÆs helping with him becoming more organized, creating good habits.
So in general, I think all type of therapies are good if they are um if they are addressed to the uh, to the issues parents or kids are bringing up.
So it could be occupational therapy or it could be a therapy that helps with anxiety and many other therapies that I donÆt knowS.
Interviewer1: So I know you talked about this earlier, how um the CBT has been helping him like change his thought processes.
Interviewee: MmmhmmInterviewer1: So how would you say that itÆs been helping him with his feelings?
Interviewee: Well unfortunately, heÆs not kind of kid who would talk a lot and heÆs very busy with school and since uh [
], heÆs in a magnet program in middle school so when he comes home at 5pm and he goes to work, you know, finishing his homework, so thereÆs not a lot of uh, so itÆs, there are not a lot of um scenarios that I could see and say ōoh okay, that happened and he didnÆt respond the right way or he did uh um uh, he-he-he did the right responseö.
So it was so obvious when my daughter was living with us because they would get in a lot of arguments and I could see that okay, heÆs not able to uh actually stand up for himself.
He would get upset so quickly and he would leave but at right now, heÆs only kidS at home and he gets all the attention and everything.
So and at the school would ask him if he has any issues, if there was any scenario that he thought that made him upset or anything and he always said ōno, everything is fineö.
So, so that it makes it a little bit difficult if the therapy is working or not because heÆs not in it, a situation or environment that I could like ōoh okay, heÆs exposed to um um cases that his anxiety might kick and, so thatÆs why it makes it a little bit difficult for me to know if itÆs working, if itÆs not working because, like I said, heÆs not talking a lot at home and um, thereÆs not a lot of interaction at home that create uh, create the environment or create a scenario that he feels like ōokay, now I have to stand up for myselfö or ōthereÆs something that I need to addressö.
Interviewer1: Okay, um are there any questions youÆd wished youÆd asked before starting CBT?
Interviewee: Um I think, well, because uh, because of my daughter, with my daughter has ADHD and unfortunately, we addressed it so late.
So we uh, so thatÆs why we started him so early.
So right away when I found out okay, this thing could be addressed by therapy so I said ōokay, he needs to be uh uh testedö.
But whereas for my daughter, unfortunately I didnÆt do any study, I just said oh no, sheÆs uh um uh, if she says ōIÆm not focusedö or sheÆs impulsive, itÆs something that she needs to work on it and you know thatÆs discipline.
So all of this but when she was, at the beginning of senior year, if IÆm not mistaken, or at the end of um sophomore year, IÆm sorry, junior year.
I think we had her to be tested and they said ōyes, she has ADHDö and for her, she didnÆt get any, oh she, oh IÆm sorry.
She-she started getting occupational therapy as well as started medication and I saw a huge difference.
So even though I might not be able to give you um good answers of what him because, as I said, we found right away and the environment she is-he is right now is not really stressful but for my daughter, I could say that it was phenomenal, the therapy that she got and um, medication, the combination worked very well for her.
Interviewer1: So you would want other parents to know that they should start as soon as possible?
Interviewee: Yes, exactly, as soon as possible.Interviewer1: Okay. Um, and whatÆs your involvement in his therapy?
Interviewee: So for him, um so I propose occupational therapy and the therapy heÆs getting for his anxiety so I, I would remind himS I have the job of reminding him, for example, he has a routine that he needs to follow at night and in the morning so I, I would remind him.
And I would ask him about the situation at his school, if there was any situation that he felt like that okay, heÆs very stressed out, he has uh he has difficulty conducting his thought.
So I would ask him of the situation that I think might make him anxious.
So um, so I think parents needs to be involved, definitely, because um kids are being kids.
They might um forget so by being involved and being like a someone that could remind or um, ask them uh what different things happened at the school, especially if theyÆre at the school.
Then I think, they could uh create conversation and find out okay, if the therapyÆs working or not because um, then they can address it the next session with the therapy and give feedback, what has been work, what has not been work.
And they can um modify if it needs to be modified.
Interviewer1: Right, so you would just want other parents to know that they should remind their children, um check in on them, see how theyÆre doing, so that they can make sure that thereÆs progress.
Interviewee: Exactly, because I think, especially if the kids are young, I know that if they are, letÆs say, in elementary school, IÆm sure the parents are going to be so involved but say even in middle school and high school, um you might say oh our kids are uh independent but still they need uh us to be um to be there to supervise and help them uh in any way that we can.
Interviewer1: So, parent involvement and support is vital?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, have you heard or read any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer1: Do you think this is something we should talk about in the video?
Interviewee: Uhh, well I think it would help because for me like still I have a hard time saying anxiety is CBT, you know, or the therapy that heÆs getting is considered to be.
I think, yeah, I think for maybe a little bit talking about what is it and make it very simple that um itÆs not like a [
] itÆs like um ģ ItÆs hard to understand.
I think it has to be very simple, especially if itÆs going to be uh in videos to be something simple that both parents and you know uh kids would understand and theyÆll know later oh this is something uh, you know sometimes, um, I donÆt know how to put it.
Um, there are some phrases that you go oh that should be so difficult to understand but then when you look at it and you analyze it, itÆs so simple.
So itÆs a mouthful, CBT, so someone might think this is so, something hard to understand but if you make it, break it down what does it mean and give some simple examples maybe that will be helpful.
Interviewer1: Right, so just everyday language that anyone can understand.
Interviewee: Yeah, yes, exactly.
Interviewer1: Okay um did you know about anybody elseÆs experience with CBT?
Interviewee: Hmmm ģ No, other than my daughter and my son, yeah.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, so now we get to transition to the part of the interview where we actually talk about how the video will look like.
Interviewee: Okay.Interviewer1: So first, we need to decide who will be in the video.
So what characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: Uh, I think parents should be there.
Um, kids, parents definitely.
Um ģ I think with um bullying being so common at the school, perhaps a scene at the school would be something.
Like uh a classroom or playground where kids interact with other, you know other kids.
Um, some of the uh anxiety might come from kids not feeling like that theyÆre not going to be accepted or feeling like oh I canÆt say this because with my daughter, uh one thing that we tried to work on through the occupational therapy was that you shouldnÆt care as much about what others think about you, or your thought.
If you feel like that this is the right thing to say, you should say it.
So I think it would be great if there is, if there is a scene that there are kids that are talking about, you know, um I donÆt know, uh a subject.
And if the kids think itÆs the right thing to say, they shouldnÆt feel like oh IÆm going to be judged.
And then uh uh so they could be able to say it without the fear of being judged or being bullied.
Interviewer1: Okay, so kids have the confidence to say what they believe is right?
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um and you said, you mentioned that they should talk at school.
Do you think there should be other scenes at like the home or the doctorÆs office?
Interviewee: I think that would help too, doctorÆs office because then kids donÆt uh feel like oh IÆm going to see a doctor you know, it becomes like uh, you want to make it like itÆs not such a big deal.
But some kids might think oh whatÆs wrong with me that I want to see a doctor?
IÆm healthy, there is nothing wrong with me.
I think uh making it comfortable, making it like uh like itÆs not such a big deal.
The person is just going to be like, you know, someone like your parent, a parent, a teacher, that is going to help with the, with your anxiety, for example.
So create the connection that uh kids have with teacher, they can have it with their therapist as well.
Interviewer1: ThatÆs great.
Um, so now we should decide what they will talk about.
So youÆve already started mentioning this, how we should talk about what CBT is in simpler terms, but what other questions do our characters need to ask and answer?
Interviewee: Um ģ you mean uh in understanding what CBT is?Interviewer1: Like do you think they should find out about the CBT explanation about CBT can become a problem in someone elseÆs life?
Interviewee: I think that would be great, yeah, because I think that some parents might uh feel like okay, itÆs nothing.
Because I had this conversation with a couple of my colleagues before having my son to be tested.
I said my son was like this, he did this, I donÆt know why heÆs doing it.
And my colleague said oh you know, itÆs just the age, itÆs just a phase, you know, itÆs a phase, itÆs going to uh go away.
Eventually, they going to learn.
So eventually going to learn, yes they might but um if there is something that can make the lives of our kids easier, why shouldnÆt we do it?
So I think itÆs very important that uh saying that if you donÆt address something maybe as simple as anxiety, what are the impacts itÆs going to have?
ItÆs going to impact their confidence, itÆs going to impact uh on their relationships, uh it could be personal relationships, could be friendship.
So I think yeah, definitely.
And I think itÆs very important that show parents that they shouldnÆt make like, they shouldnÆt think that oh itÆs something that is going to go away by itself.
In my case, I thought oh okay, itÆs just the sibling but not for my son, as I said, for my daughter.
No, you have to work hard [
], you know?
At this point I feel like if there is something that could help our kidsÆ lives easier, you should do it.
Interviewer1: So you show them that there is an option that is available to them?
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer1: Helps make their kidsÆ lives easier?
Interviewee: Yeah, yes.
Interviewer1: So, should they talk about how itÆs worked for other kids?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so, yeah.
Especially address for that you might not get a lot of, you know, good feedbacks, in terms of if it has worked or not, because, as I said we, [
] so early for him and then itÆs so early in the process, but other parents that uh you have had this interview and uh their feedbacks and what worked for them, I think that would be great if you include it without mentioning the names or
Interviewer1: Right, right.
Um, and uh should they ask about what parents can and canÆt do to help?
Interviewee: Um ģ I, I think so.
Yeah, I think showing that their involvement is going to be important, yeah but at the same time, not making it oh okay.
Because some parents say oh then why IÆm bringing my kid to the therapy if IÆm going to be as involved?
So it should be the way that, you know what, if you want to see the great impact then you need to be engaged.
So not making it oh okay so, I donÆt know.
Some parents say no, if IÆm going to have the therapy to help my kid, so why should I be involved?
So then why should I pay?
So IÆm going to do it myself.
So making it that, you know what, itÆs going to make the loves of both parents and kidsÆ easier but it requires some involvement and support.
Interviewer1: Support.
Okay, so now we get to the fun part where we get to decide how the videos will look.
So, first of all, are there any cartoons or animated movies that you like?
Interviewee: Um ģ well, I know that kids like ģ Me, I donÆt watch um like animated movies or cartoons but I think kids could be the one could give good examples.
Interviewer1: So I have three options here and you can take a minute to flip through them.
And then, after youÆve looked through them, could you let me know which style you like the most?
Interviewee: Okay ģInterviewee: So this part is going to, so you guys going to have the different version for different group age?
So itÆs notģ itÆs going to be one for every group age can watch?
-
Interviewer: So I think weÆre going to have one set of videos for children, and weÆre still deciding if weÆre going to make a separate set for parents.
Interviewee: Okayģ well I think I like the third one.
Interviewer: The third one?
Interviewee: The comic, yeah.
Because with the first and second one, I feel like itÆs going to be hard to target all the kids.
LetÆs say if you make something, itÆs so hard to cover all ages.
It might satisfy one age group, the first one, but especially the second one, I feel like it makes it so limited.
It would be harder to connect with older ages.
The first one I think you could have for kids in middle school age and have the scenario or another frame of video that is older kids, because itÆs going to be difficult to target things that make both middle school and high school kids anxious.
But for comic, I think itÆs everyone, every age who can relate to it, and it makes it a little easier to make something that kids from elementary school, middle school, and high school can watch without feeling like, ōOh, itÆs not for my age.ö
So thatÆs my thought.
I think comic would make it a little bit easier to target all groups, all age groups.
Whereas the second one I think is especially for older kids.
The first one is fine I think, but I like the third one.
Interviewer: Okay.
Finally, what do you think the take home message for the video should be?
Interviewee: It shouldnÆt be something that parents feel like, ōOh there is something else I need to be worried about.ö
It should be something like, ōOh!
ThatÆs something I can make them feel like they want to do it!ö they donÆt feel like, ōOh, this is something else that needs planning of what IÆm going to do,ö because as parents, we have so many thing that we need to think about.
So, if we make this something thatÆs going to be beneficial, it doesnÆt really require a lot of planning from parents, then it makes it a lot easier.
It makes it a lot more appealing for them to go and actually seek the help that is going to be available.
I think thatÆs very important.
So for me, if itÆs something like, ōOh, I have to plan for it.
Oh, I have to do this,ö then IÆm less likely to take the initiative.
Whereas if itÆs something simple like, ōOh!
Everything is going to be there.
Yes, IÆm going to have some engagement, yes IÆm going to be there, but most of it is going to be done through the therapy and by going every week or every two weeks, youÆre going to actually check the progress.
ItÆs not just going to be you feeling like, ōOkay, am I seeing the progress or not?ö itÆs a collaboration, with the parent and the doctor or therapist.ö
Interviewer: Okay, so just get them excited for therapy?
Interviewee: Get them excited for therapy, not for them to feel like, ōThis is something extra you need to think about or plan for.ö
Make it easy.
The second thing would be, just make it so that kids donÆt feel like thereÆs something wrong with them which is why their parents are taking them to the doctor.
No, no, no, itÆs not like that.
ItÆs like the way that teachers are helping us to grow academically and personally, so the therapist is going to help us in different aspects of our lives that we need help.Interviewer: So let kids know that thereÆs nothing wrong with them?
Interviewee: That itÆs okay, yes.
Because some kids are like, ōOh, if my friends find out that IÆm seeking therapy that must mean somethingÆs wrong with me.ö
That cognitively.
I donÆt want to use the word disabled, but somethingÆs wrong.
So make it like, ōNo, itÆs normal.ö
As I said, the name CBT, cognitive, some people might say, ōOkay, that means that you or your kid have some mental problem.ö
So it has to be made like, yes, itÆs a big word but that doesnÆt mean itÆs something where you feel like you have to be labeled for doing the therapy.
Interviewer: Okay, is there anything I missed?
Anything else you would like to talk about?
Interviewee: So these videos, will be available where?
At the school level?
Interviewer: Mostly for right now, weÆre thinking itÆs for patients or parents that are considering going into therapy, but we have heard that we should make it available to schools so that kids know that the option is available to them.
Interviewee: Okay.
I think that would be great because for people who are coming here, they have already taken the step, so itÆs going to help them to continue.
But I think it would be very helpful if itÆs being shown at the school because like IÆve said, for me, I felt like I neglected, and I felt like, ōOh no, this is simply because my kid needs to work harder,ö but after I brought my daughter and I saw whatÆs possible, I saw the benefit of it, I was like, ōOkay, I want to do it for my son too.
[UNDERSCORE] Oh no, heÆs going to be labeled, because there is this, especially with international people, this stigma of, ōOh, youÆre going to therapy?
Something must be wrong.ö
So I think if this is available at the school or even if the school let parents know that these videos are available, and if they want to, they can access it.
Then parents can look at it if they feel like, ōOkay, maybe I want to give it a try.ö
Because I think you would see the benefit of it for people who donÆt know about your program.
And I think the best place is school- thatÆs where parents get their information most of the time.
Interviewer: So just make it more accessible so that more people are educated and not scared of it?
Interviewee: Exactly, yes.
Interviewer: Okay, is there anything else?
Interviewee: No, I think thatÆs it.
Interviewer: Thank you so much for your time.
Interviewee: Of course.
Interviewer: Alright so thanks for meeting with us today.
We already kind of went through a lot of what the study is about.
To just kind of reiterate, we are going to talk about cognitive behavioral therapy so really just the therapy that we are going here at the clinic.
So you may have some experience with other types of therapy, weÆre going to try to focus on this type of therapy here.
Ideally weÆll use this to create some videos.
We havenÆt quite decided yet if it will be more geared towards children and parents or if weÆre going to do two separate videos.
So thatÆs some questions you might have different thoughts on based off of either.
Interviewee: Do you include the FEAR facers camp?
Is that a part of the clinic from here?
Interviewer: Yes, you can include stuff from FEAR facers.
Interviewee: Because that was very awesome.
Interviewer: IÆm a big fan of FEAR facers, so yeah.
That would be fine for this as well.
Interviewee: Okay.Interviewer: Alright so just to start, can you tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT or cognitive behavioral therapy- the therapy that we talked about?
Interviewee: What comes to mind would be real-time applicable practicing different scenarios that base some sort of psychological- internal thing thatÆs going on with a person but try to simulate and actively address but it feels like, what it looks like and then continuing to sort of arming someone with tools so that theyÆre able to get used to that sort of feeling and how to handle themselves when theyÆre potentially experiencing that for real.
Interviewer: Okay.
So really simulating a real life experience and giving them tools for helping with that.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay.
Sounds like you do know quite a bit about CBT, have some experience.
Could you kind of tell me what you do know about CBT in general?
Or how would you explain it to someone else?
If itÆs any different from what you said.
Interviewee: Sort of- I feel like itÆs like thinking about, sort of that metacognition where youÆre thinking about your thinking.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: Normally you arenÆt asked to do that unless itÆs sort of causing some sort of distress to oneÆs self to think about what youÆre thinking with certain things.
I lost my train of thoughtģ
Interviewer: You were talking about metacognition and thinking about thinking when normally you wouldnÆt do that.
Interviewee: What was your question now?
Interviewer: Oh, my question was just how would you explain CBT to someone else?
Interviewee: Okay.
Yeah it would be thinking about your thinking and then sort of like almost working backwards to try to feel like, okay this is, you know, this is the end of result of something and backtracking to think what was it that got me here or what was I doing or what patterns or habits am I seeing that are continually arriving me at this result.
I always feel like you can pinpoint a result but then trying to figure out what got us here or why are we here and then sort of working backwards from that and realizing the thought process that kind of preceded wherever you are right now.
That you donÆt want to be.
Interviewer: Right so realizing this is the resultģ
Interviewee: A thought process that happened and kind of thinking about okay recognizing where does this start?
What was the beginning of this?
If you can recognize that start, kind of trying to- youÆre gaining tools that will be able to- you can, when you find yourself in that process or anywhere in there realizing hey IÆm familiar with this.
I kind of know where this is going to go and trying to stop the cycle or sort of divert into something else so you donÆt end up in that same spot again.
I donÆt know if IÆm making any sense right now.
If I could draw a picture, yeah IÆm such a visual person about it.
But to me thatÆs what it is to sort of- realizing that there are patterns that are happening and youÆre uncomfortable with and that are in some way you would seek this sort of therapy out by because you recognize that youÆre not happy or youÆre uncomfortable or that in life things are limited for you because of this thing that is happening over and over but then recognizing, like backtracking and recognizing the signals of itÆs coming.
So that you can try to prevent continuing that spiral or being in that situation or frame of mind again over and over.
Interviewer: So thereÆs, you know, those thoughts having something to help you with preventing it from spiraling.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay.
So kind of, either when you came here or for summer camp.
Was summer camp before you came here or did you come here first?
Interviewee: Here first.Interviewer: Here first?
Okay. What was- do you remember what questions you had when you first came here?
As far as what to expect or what did you want to know about the therapy?
So it sounds like you had a good idea of what it entails but.
Interviewee: Well it was sort of strange because we were on the waiting list for a really long time so we ended up starting therapy with- I donÆt remember it was so long ago- how it wasnÆt normally done that way type situation but I donÆt remember when it was supposed to be done it was like forever out long we couldnÆt do it so we started seeing someone first so at first it was sort of getting a diagnosis of even what was going on and finding out that there were a combination potentially of things going.
But I lost my train of thought againģ
[PAUSED]
¢ Transcribed by Kendall
Interviewer: ThatÆs okay.
Interviewee: I did not eat lunch today.
Yeah, thatÆs the first water IÆve had today.
ItÆs been a crazy day.
Interviewer: I think, you know, youÆreģ itÆs perfectly fine.
I can definitely- IÆll rephrase that.
But you talked about the diagnosis and it being a combination of things.
Interviewee: Yes.Interviewer: So you talked about that being the first thing and so IÆm guessing after that came the recommendation for therapy?
Interviewee: Yes and then we were told because there were- I was like is this going to be talk therapy where we come in and talk about our feelings type thing?
Is that, you know, whatÆs going on and thatÆs when we were kind of given a sort of what I felt like was a little bit of a brief overview.
We were told about the fear hierarchy or whatever it was and we were talking and we- once there was a diagnosis ofģ at first it was generalized anxiety and OCD and so I didnÆt even understand really what OCD was at the time.
So I just had thought that it was a physical manifestation only that it was habitual habits that you would be acting out kind of that maybe you had to have a thought process that went with it but I always felt like it had some sort of recognizable physical representation as well.
Then getting, just on our first meeting, talking about no it can even just be a thought process it doesnÆt ever even have to be animated.
There is no kind of thing to that and understanding what that was put it into perspective for me to all of a sudden go oh you can get kind of caught in a loop of just thoughts that prevent you from carrying life on comfortably type thing.
So then it was explained to us and she I remember gave us a little diagram that showed two rainbows and something I donÆt even remember but talking about that it was basically kind of like an exposure where were going to rate things- your comfort level on things and addressing and things we had already realized, patterns that brought us in in the first place.
Reaching out for help was because recognizing that there was these certain things that kept popping up andģ so it was like yeah letÆs just start addressing those things and as we worked through those things realizing, you know, it was pretty cool just prioritizing, you know, what you wanted to work with first and really had quick results with- at the time I think my daughter was in 5th grade?
4th grade?
It was like 4 years ago.
Talking about the dedication that it would take to know that there were a couple paths we could do.
You know, Ideally It would be fairly quick and regular but it didnÆt- I will just say working with children in the 9-5 to 9-4 window and wanting to work with them every day or every other day was kind of overwhelming as a parent because that interrupts their regular education and lifestyle and stuff.
So we ended up trying to find a way to do both things kind of and so- which presented like itÆs kind of going to be longer, weÆre going to have to work at this longer type thing but the results happens so quickly and that was really helpful too because itÆs kind of heartbreaking as a parent to want to help your child but knowing we canÆt come here every day and spend the first two hours- 9-11, youÆre going to miss so much school.
That kind of thing but with the actual thing, our experience anyway with the actual- what I love is that it was giving her tools and it was- she could practice things outside of therapy as well that continued to help her benefit, you know, even outside of the actual sessions that we were having.Interviewee: Soģ as weÆve worked our way through the therapy sometimes the things have changed or new things have come in and as a parent I already see her navigate.
She uses- applies some of the same techniques almost naturally now, so itÆs to the point where weÆve even gone through period- long periods of time where we werenÆt coming andģ weÆre back and itÆs been short, sweet and sort of quick just like in some ways a refresher.
But she, you know, sheÆs an adolescent now so sheÆs a lot different than she was 4 years ago and is in all kinds of different situations.
Does that answer your question?
Interviewer: You did, yeah.
Yeah no. You talked about, you know, before doing therapy you said they kind of talked about the different paths you could take, they talked about the fear hierarchy, and then I think you mentioned with the rainbow.
Interviewee: Yeah, I forgot what it was.
Lightning and rainbows?
I donÆt remember.
Something like that.
I remember but it really, for me and I remember really my daughter too, it was- for us it seemed to put it kind of into oh hereÆs the plan, hereÆs what weÆre doing.
HereÆs where you might be right now but if you continue doing this it will be over time.
To-at the beginning I was like wow this is really intense and intensive.
When we were about to do something like the camp where it was like she went in whatever it was 5 days insanely panicked about some things.
Then by the 5th day she was just like here go ahead give me a shot and she actually did it that day, you know, whereas there were no immunizations before that.
There was no finger pricks.
There was a
of staff, you know, trying to get to her, get her to calm down.
There was avoiding doctorÆs appointments, there was- it was just crazy.
It was just crazy how intense it was to just in a quick period of time and that was just one of her things in her fear hierarchy but things that really affected her daily life not even just doctor stuff but just in that short week so many things because it was so intensive.
It was day after day working really really hard soģ
Interviewer: So it sounds like youÆre saying that knowing the- having the visual representation was helpful to kind of know what to expect and also being able to know the different paths you can take were helpful.
Interviewee: Right.
Yeah, you can do something intensive thatÆs shorter and I would hopefully assume that other people have those kind of responses.
I can only say what we had or, you know, that if thatÆs not possible havingģ and I think it worked well to- we usually have some sort of homework type thing to do and so youÆre still working in between your sessions or can be working in between your sessions.
But then yeah, spreading it out over more time so itÆs notģ benefit both ways.
Yeah, there are different paths you could go.
Interviewer: Right.
It sounds like so- I know it might be difficult to think back 4 years ago.
So it sounds like there were some things that they talked about that really helped you.
Was there anything that you wish you had known that maybe you found out later.
Then if you think about it, youÆre like well I wish we had known this when we first started.
And if you donÆt thatÆs okay.Interviewee: Well one I just wished I would have realized was I remember when we were talking about which kind of path to take I really had no idea and not that-maybe there is not guarantee but like how quickly it could be if it was intensive because looking back, I mean, it took us many months to get through something that was affecting her on a daily basis.
So looking back, it may have been worth to just take a week off of school and just focus on this and then working back to catch up to get through school.
And/or it worked out with the Fear Facers, it was a camp that was available also during a break so, you know, if you canÆt- if it wouldnÆt work in a schedule just knowing that okay maybe it doesnÆt have to be right now butģ maybe into the future a little bit we could do these three days right here or, you know, like that kind of thing.
It didnÆt even have- it didnÆt occur to me we could just sort of protect-protect a time to make this happen.
But thatÆs in hindsight because IÆm probably at the time would have been like this is not going to be that effective.
Not that it wouldnÆt be that effective but-
Interviewer: How quick necessarily.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Having gone through it, IÆm like wow!
Every single time, even with one session within 48 hours I can see a daily consistent change.
But she is also a very hard worker.
She wants it for herself, itÆs not like IÆm trying to nag.
I donÆt know if you have people who arenÆt as motivated.
You know, but for her- for us and for her, it was great sessions, great tools that, you know, she has even been able to adapt and apply even in other situations that she recognizes the feelings or the whatever.
SheÆs like oh!
You know, I donÆt know she uses the tools sheÆs had.
Also I think that the camps are kind of beneficial just knowing that youÆre not- that itÆs more common than you realize that people have things that theyÆre working on that affect them.
Interviewer: Soģ maybe that might be helpful if people knew that or patients knew that coming in?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Yeah.
Interviewer: That people also have these similar issues.
Interviewee: And people they can probably relate to on many levels.
Not just, you know, not like oh this is another person that has something that would benefit from CBT but oh yeah theyÆre also, whatever, my age or they have full, whatever not just.
Never mind I donÆt know what IÆm trying to say.
Interviewer: YouÆre fine, youÆre fine.
Just kind of thinking about that experience.
I know weÆre kind of asking a lot of questions that are similar-ish so if this the same as another question and you have the same answer thatÆs fine.
But just thinking about those experiences, were there any parts of therapy that were really confusing when you started?
Or actually at any point?
Interviewee: No.
I mean I feel like itÆs been very self-explanatory.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: To the point.
ItÆs always actionable.
Whatever theyÆre doing is like right awayģ and always reflective.
ItÆs always based on what her comfort is so I think it gives her a sense of that itÆs not just your plan that IÆm having to follow but we make this plan together and at any time if I change my mind...
ItÆs really still your own plan, you just have somebody to kind of guide you through it.
Interviewer: So itÆs collaborative.Interviewee: Yeah. Ultimately I feel like sheÆs in control of it.
ItÆs not like you have to do this at any time if you change your mind, you know.
And I think as a child that was probably helpful for her because you tend to be told youÆre going to listen to the adults and youÆre going to, you know.
At least thatÆs how we roll but I think her realizing, you know, this is making me way more
being able to vocalize and say never mind not ready for that or you know this is how I am feeling and always being able to give that feedback and itÆs always been adjusted immediately and not oh okay well were done but like okay weÆll back it down weÆre still going to keep working like this, you know.
I donÆt know
Interviewer: She still has some control.
Interviewee: Yeah sheÆs felt like sheÆs had some control of it I think so thatÆs helped her feel like she can still make progress without having to completely submit to everyone.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
You talked about- you mentioned how you didnÆt realize that OCD can be this thought labor-
Interviewee: Yeah this really internal.
I didnÆt realize- yeah.
Interviewer: It sounds like similarly anxiety you mentioned kind of this thought spiral.
So you mentioned, you know, how that kind of becomes a problem in someoneÆs life.
If someone- in terms of anxiety and OCD, and this may be similar to your own experiences but what would be important for other patients to know?
So like not necessarily about the therapy itself but about the anxiety that we are trying to treat with CBT?
Does that make sense?
Interviewee: I think so, well from what I have seen it almost they like remedies almost even.
So sometimes itÆs like having the anxiety about the OCD orģ obsessing aboutģ yeah obsessing about something thatÆs making you anxious.
ItÆs almost like sometimes it can beģ because IÆve tried to separate them because I know you can, you know, just have one and not the other and IÆm trying to separate them but it seems like thereÆs a dance that there is happening often times andģ really I think that the CBD or CBT is applicable to both situations.
So itÆs win/win no matter what if itÆs something that tends to be that, well I guess they kind of both are well I donÆt know at least IÆm not experienced thatÆs kind of what itÆs been, she gets stuck in a cycle and then itÆs just complete breaks are on, everything is stopping and she canÆt break herself free from it without these different tools that sheÆs finally got.
Just recognizing and realizing what she can sense things right away like my heart rate is picking up and she has tools that she can use that she can do anywhere anytime and if thatÆsģ if it continues to elevate and she feels that going on then she has sort of these checks and balances that she can use.
If it ever gets to the point where she feels like she canÆt manage it of course then we usually just come to session to
out whatever is going on and adjusting it a little bit.
ThatÆs kind of been her attempt but her solution our solutionģ
Interviewer: So you mentioned, oh sorry were you?
Interviewee: No.Interviewer: So you mentioned recognizing symptoms of anxiety like heart racing and the reflective piece of utilizing the skills that CBT has brought.
Are there any other skills or specific areas that CBT seems to target that seems to help buildģ or any thoughts or feelings or actions?
Interviewee: Well I think it is sort of a practice, realizing that itÆs something that you have to work out.
It isnÆt a practice, it is almost just part of your regular health just like you need to eat food to sort ofģ you need to move your body.
ItÆs like a part of your brain that you also have to connect with and maintain like a health sort of balance.
So things that sheÆs identified for herself that sort of help her balance herself out emotionally and mentally are all things that she uses on a regular basis and makes sure she has, you know, almost like self-medicating in a way.
Using different, you know, breathe, tapping, she does the tapping sometimes.
Things that she can do.
She knows music, she uses music to change things orģ I guess itÆs just- itÆs kind of just general practices that sheÆs had to work into where it becomes literally its part of her everyday almost.
So itÆs like setting yourself up for success in a way.
Whereas before, she would try to set herself up for success by avoiding anything she recognized as a trigger.
So instead itÆs almost like IÆm going to take care of myself in these ways and if she ever notices, you know, IÆm starting to feel these certain things, she used to get crazy headaches, and you know, just aches and pains even all throughout her body but just kind of setting the stage for success for herself in a mental way like incorporating a few of those things, I think.
Did I answer your question again?
I forgot where we were going.
Interviewer: No you did.
You gave me some very specific skills so that was perfect.
So it sounds like she had some specific skills and it sounds like also kind of getting rid of some avoidance.
Interviewee: Alright, goodģ yeah.
Interviewer: It sounds like that used to be kind of the coping strategy but not-
Interviewee: Yeah.
Well yeah and thereÆs also the thereÆs no more reassurance.
ThereÆs no more justifying and this very well could happen.
So you just have to kind of own it like am I choosing to go out in the world and have a life and participate?
Because the other options is just to stay in here and be stuck in there with the what ifs, the itÆs going to, that may never play out like that kind of thing...
Yeah, so you have to kind of be- and I think thatÆs the whole premise right?
ItÆs kind of like you face it in a small little way and then you get some sort of alright IÆm going to take a little bigger bite the next time.
Okay, and okay so that did happen and IÆm still okay.
You know, that kind of, you know, has given her sort of a framework to work through things in a supported way.
But also what to do when youÆre not here with a bunch of support.
How to support yourself long-term.
Interviewer: As much as in clinic but also outside in the real world.
Interviewee: Right, yeah.Interviewer: That makes sense.
So for, as a parent, what was your involvement in CBT?
As far as the therapy?
Interviewee: So, IÆve always tried to give the option of letting my child just own it and go without me which is not how I normally parent.
WeÆre very involved in each otherÆs lives but I was like if you need to be away from me, okay.
I will accept it, you know.
Who knows, maybe itÆs me, you know, that is triggering a bunch of things.
So, kind of, letting a little person makes some, what feels like, big decisions is interesting.
Of course, as a parent, it is a lot of you have to think about the expense just the logistics of making it all happen.
Then, so far we have had everybody itÆs always very welcome and inclusive and saying you can come in, you know, you can be a part or role in any way that you want.
IÆve always checked with my daughter every and anytime and say okay do you want me to stay out or if you need me to come in.
Whatever you want, everyone always seems very flexible about making it work out however it needs to be.
In our case there were times where IÆd have to sort of nudge and be like okay I think you should.
Have you worked on, have you done your homework yet for that?
The regular parenting- the regular parenting things or just recognizing, you know, we would come up with code words or whatever to kind of help when theyÆre out and about in the world.
Kind of see that going on, and sheÆs even had that before with me and sheÆll be texting me code words when sheÆs in a social situation so that IÆm just kind of alert.
Okay, sheÆs feeling the anxiety rising, and usually we have made some plans ahead of time like what that would be and itÆs never like abort itÆs usually like support and IÆll be here to love you while this goes on but this is- weÆre in it kind of together type thing and itÆs always worked out way better.
We rarely ever need the plans but just having, I think, that feeling of support thatÆs just- in whatever form it has needed to be but I feel like thatÆs just kind of parenting in general.
So I donÆt know thatÆs just parenting with CBT would be normal parenting.
Interviewer: ItÆs useful for us to know.
I mean, thatÆs your experience.
Interviewee: But I guess everybody parents different, I donÆt know so.
Interviewer: And you mentioned kind of your experience and you mentioned like some of the things that you kind of have to know before you get into it are the logistics and the expense.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Is there anything else that would be useful for other parents to know before they kind of have their child jump into this?
Interviewee: I donÆt know anything else, yeah.
Interviewer: ThatÆs fine, yeah.
Okay, so the next several or few questions, I guess, is going to be kind ofģ geared at kind of how you-where youÆve heard about CBT outside of the clinic and outside of
.
So the first one is kind of about movies, TV, internet, and other people.
So how much did you know about CBT from these other things?
Interviewee: Nothing.
Interviewer: Nothing?
Okayģ Did you ever- or have you ever read or heard any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: No?
Is that something, you know, if we did these videos or as we are thinking about these videos would that be something that would be useful to be talked about in the videos?
Or do you think it wouldnÆt really be-have an effect.
Interviewee: I mean I feel like everybody loves a bullet point, you know like a statistic any sort of research based quick- if itÆs quick.
Interviewer: So quick research base like bullet points, statistics
Interviewee: Statistics, yeah like a statistic.
Whatever, anything that has to do with it.
Success rates, I donÆt know, how many- I donÆt know.Interviewer: So it may not necessarilyģ
Interviewee: Numbers like I always feel like that gives validity to something when you can put a value on it and numbers tend to do that.
Interviewer: When you say numbers or statistics, can you clarify what that would be like?
Is that some kind of percentage of something or is that some other?
Interviewee: Yeah, maybe.
Maybe, I like percentage but I also like bar graphs or pie charts.
Interviewer: Pie charts?
Interviewee: You know, a quick understandable- because I would think if youÆre looking at options, you know, there would be other types of therapies that you could do as well.
Yeah.
Interviewer: Some kind of comparison?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think, I donÆt know.
Interviewer: ThatÆs perfectly- perfectly fine.
Interviewee: TheyÆll have to shop everything now and sort of compare.
Interviewer: EveryoneÆs kind of like a consumer of multiple things.
Interviewee: Right.
Well I mean just even, this is sort of, you know, you have to be active in this.
ItÆs not a pill you can swallow but you can also swallow pills that will help you through some of these things and it can be a conjunction.
I could see, you know, just presenting in anyway, especially if youÆre trying to convince people to go the route of it, which I would think would be the thing is showing it in a beneficial light in comparison to just medication or talk therapy or I donÆt even know if thatÆs what itÆs called but thatÆs what I call it.
Something else to give it, kind of, a measurement- a visual measurement like something- yeah.
Interviewer: Visual- okay, some visual representation and something thatÆs maybe measureable or something like that.
Okay.
Alright.
Interviewee: An infographic.
You know people love infographics.
Like really really
.
Interviewer: No!
I get what youÆre saying.
Yeah, an infographic, people do like infographics it seems.
Okay and you said you didnÆt really know about anyone elseÆs experiences with CBT, right?
Okay.
Interviewee: Not coming into it.
Now I do but not a whole lot.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: But because of my position I end up talking- because IÆm involved with so many children and so many families and often working with different families and children- not my child but, you know, somebody else and learning okay so we were here before and now because- you know- IÆve had parents mention before that they are doing CBT with their children on different
Interviewee: you know, oh my gosh you shouldģ and IÆll be like yes isnÆt it amazing!
Or you know.
Interviewer: So it sounds like it was mostly positive?
Interviewee: Yes!
IÆve never heard anything negative.
Interviewer: Well we do like- we love to hear that.
No but- right.
Interviewee: I donÆt hear a lot about it.
But itÆs not like IÆve never heard anybody be oh this was horrible and the biggest waste of time, now weÆre really messed up.
Interviewer: Gotcha.
I mean and if it did-
Interviewee: If it did-
Interviewer: It would be good to know, right?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: So it sounds like pretty much all positive even the little bit that youÆve heard.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Alright so weÆre almost at the part where weÆll talk about specifically the video.
This last question; when you first learned about it, which again I know weÆre going back a little bit, think of three words to describe how you felt about CBT?
Or if you can, what those words would be.
For describing CBT.
Interviewee: I think the only thing I can think of is, you know, sort of tongue and cheek.
ItÆs just like-
Interviewer: ThatÆs okay.
It can be like if what came to your mind for describing it when you first found out about it or how you felt about it if itÆs sort of tongue and cheek, thatÆs okay.
ThatÆs your personal answer.
Interviewee: It just seems obvious like itÆs almost so easy- it seems so obvious.
Duh- why wouldnÆt you treat it this way?
Interviewer: Okay, so obvious.Interviewee: Yeah. ItÆs just- but itÆs almost making things too hard or too whatever, you know.
Trying to think of things.
It doesnÆt have to be so complicated like itÆs actually a pretty simple step one, step two.
ItÆs just a process and can be a fairly short process.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I would almost say lather, rinse, repeat.
ItÆs literally-thatÆs what your shampoo says- thatÆs what women shampoo says maybe guyÆs shampoo ¢ everyoneÆs shampoo probably says the same thing.
ItÆs shampoo.
But likeģ
Interviewer: So I heard obvious, simple, and what was the third one?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I donÆt know I guess quick.
Interviewer: Quick?
Interviewee: We could do that.
Interviewer: Okay.
So obvious, simple, and quick.
They donÆt have to be- this is kind of just how you felt.
Interviewee: I know.
Marketing ads, that was my previous job.
All this advertising and graphic design thatÆs what I always wanted.
I wanted it to be something cheesy like itÆs all brain but itÆs a no brainer.
You know?
Type situation.
Interviewer: Right, that makes sense.
ThatÆs kind of a fun tagline.
Okay so for those three words that we did come up with and we can do another one for the ōitÆs allö- what was it?
ItÆs all brain but a no brainer.
Are there any visuals that you think that would be or good pictures that you think would accompany those pictures?
Just kind of thinking from a video perspective sometimes itÆs nice to put pictures.
And it can be one for each one or it could be one for as a group.
Interviewee: Yeahģ IÆm like flat lined now.
I donÆt know- I canÆt.
I mean likeģ
Interviewer: ThatÆs okay.
Interviewee: Can you rephrase you question?
Interviewer: Yeah!
IÆll try to chop it up a little bit.
So if we were to put obvious as a word, what kind of image comes to mind?
What kind of picture?
Interviewee: I donÆt have any, which is so funny.
Interviewer: Nothing?
Okay.
Interviewee: There is no picture.
Interviewer: ThatÆs okay.
Interviewee: Static, thereÆs just static.
Interviewer: Okay, what about- does anything come to mind for simple?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: What about quick?
Interviewee: A stopwatch?
ThatÆs the only thing that pops into my mind.
Interviewer: Okay, a stopwatch?
Okay and what about itÆs all brain but itÆs a no brainer?
Just wondering if there is any image that you can think of that associates with that.
Interviewee: Yeah like all comedy things.
Interviewer: Just something funny?
Interviewee: Yeah, I can almost see taking out your, and not in a gory way, taking your brain out of your head and rocking it, giving it a hug, you know, just taking care of yourself kind of in a way.
Just all cheesy things.
Just want to bedazzle it, I donÆt know.
Interviewer: Cheesy is fine.
Interviewee: ThatÆs what you get right now.
ThatÆs what IÆm bringing.
Interviewer: ThatÆs okay.
ThatÆs alright.
Alright, so were going to talk about the videos and then some of the fun part of kind of how they could look.
So, IÆll kind of go through a few questions regarding that and then I have some templates for you to look at.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Kind of what your thoughts are so first thing we need to do is decide who would be in the videos.
What kind of characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: I almost feel like if its kid based, I would almost feel like it would be notģ youÆre doing a cartoon.
DidnÆt you say youÆre doing a cartoon so itÆs going to be animated?
Interviewer: There- weÆre not entirely sure but we are- I think the idea is animated.
Interviewee: I think for adults would be more drawn to, you know, actual people.
But kids are used to everything animated.
Interviewer: So for kids maybe something animated but for adults maybe live action or real people, I guess.
For lack of a better word.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: So not animated?
Interviewee: Maybe.Interviewer: Maybe?
Interviewee: IÆm kind of a big kid so it doesnÆt really, I donÆt count.
I donÆt know I donÆt relate to the adultsTER.
Interviewer: What would your preference be would it be to be animated or live action?
Interviewee: I just want it to be funny.
Interviewer: You just want it to be funny?
Okay.
Interviewee: Lighthearted because itÆs really stressful.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: ItÆs really stressful to be worried about someone else and even yourself and realize like you know thereÆs work to be done IÆve got to make some decisions so IÆd rather it be informative, fast, and sort of upbeat and lighthearted because everythingÆs stressed anyway so um yeah.
Interviewer: Okay.
I think that those are some really good key words like informative, fastģ
Interviewee: DonÆt want it to be too self-reflectiveģ
Interviewer: But adding some lightheartedness.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
I get that.
Um so as far as whatÆs in the videos, again these characters, should we have any nonhuman characters?
Interviewee: Definitely.
Interviewer: Definitely?
Okay so animals?
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: Okay, what are some nonhuman characters maybe?
Interviewee: I donÆt know IÆm just really stuck on robots right now.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: IÆm in a robot phase so I do a lot of robot stuff with my students and we talk about our brains all the time, we kiss our brains all the time, and we have a brain train.
And we have train robbers that rob the brains and I make all kinds of silly little animations.
So I was thinking sense my daughterÆs OCD is named Mr. Waffles, I can totally play out a video in my head of Mr. Waffles trying to get on the train with her and then kicking him off.
But thatÆs just what she chose to name her OCD.
SoģI donÆt know, right now it feels like Looney Toons in my head so it would be a funny thing.
Interviewer: Okay so funny, Looney Toons, possibly animals, possibly some robots.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Not people.
Interviewer: Not people?
Okay.
Interviewee: I donÆt know why.
Interviewer: No thatÆs fair.
Okay so should there be any superheroes?
Interviewee: Um, they would be their own superheroes.
Interviewer: TheyÆd be their own superheroes?
Okay.
Interviewee: Everyone wants to be their own superhero.
Interviewer: No yeah thatÆs fair.
You know I understand that for sure.
I think a lot of people definitely have the desire to be a superhero.
Interviewee: Well itÆs harder for kids too because you gotta worry about, do they identify with that kid or are they the right ethnicity, is it a boy is it a girl, is it a whatever.
And if itÆs already a nonperson then they already like it and accept it and donÆt compare themselves to it.
Interviewer: ThatÆs a good point and that leads me to my next question; should we include children in the video and if so should it be a boy, girl or both?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I donÆt know.
Could be Chris Pratt.
Interviewer: Could be Chris Pratt.
Interviewee: Is it a boy is it a girl.
We donÆt knowģ I give them choices all the time with how they identify themselves or represent themselves you know and IÆm always like surprised at what comes back and so given creative freedom you know often times it can be therapeutic to not be yourself sometimes.
I donÆt know that it would be relatable as relatable you know if youÆre trying to, if you want a child to personally relate immediately then it might be more obvious if you made it people.
But, maybe more entertaining and pay a little closer attention if it wasnÆt people.
Interviewer: Gotcha.
So would we include parents, or friends or doctors or would those like kind of fit the non-people?
speaker: I donÆt know.
Like at what point?
Like if they were trying to decide if they were gonna, or inform them on what it is.Interviewer: I think it could be used for either.
So either like youÆre about to start; youÆre getting some information or do you have a thought on when that would be useful?
Like would it be more useful as kind of like when youÆre looking?
This kind of gives you some basic information or as youÆre about to start therapy this would be helpful forģ
Interviewee: I tend to be a little bit more of a researcher so if it were something I could see or play ahead of time.
.
In that case I guess it could be a little bit of both or it could be separate.
Parents seeking or adults seeking, or for children.
I probably would have watched both and then if I felt like something I would have shown my child the child one because she was already so anxious to begin with, so going into a new situation and meeting someone new for her was already kind of unsettling.
Just to kid of give a friendly face or a light hearted face to it could be beneficial.
Interviewer: When you say ōquickö can you give me a timeframe like if it under this amount of time.
Interviewee: Under three minutes.
Interviewer: Okay.
That was helpful because different people have different definitions of ōquickö so thatÆs probably what mine would be as well.
Interviewee: And thatÆs a pretty long time these days because everybody swipes and clicks and is used to controlling everything like really like ten seconds.
I mean I could usually tell during the first thirty seconds of a lesson like theyÆre not with me.
Same thing public speaking like if you donÆt have them in the first minute or two like people are already starting to whip out their phones and theyÆre gone.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Makes sense.
I agree.
Things keep getting shorter and shorter it seems like.
So now weÆve said whoÆs in it.
Now we have to decide where theyÆre gonna talk.
So like would it be at home, school, doctors office, somewhere outside?
None of the above?
Interviewee: I donÆt know.
Any of those places I think would be okay.
I donÆt think where is as important like what like just to present your information.
I would keep it simple.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the content, to you, is more important than the location.
Interviewee: Yeah as an adult, the bullet points I would be looking for the bullet points.
The kids arenÆt; well depending on their age, but thatÆs usually not, they like points not bullet points.
They want tokens or points.
ōThe next levelö I donÆt know, level up; theyÆre so into that kind of stuff.
I mean it seems natural that [LOCATION] would be in an office.
I always feel like when we come in here its pediatric so itÆs more kid friendly and there are small things for small people and the kids always notice that.
If itÆs child friendly, we donÆt notice that as much as adults because we are used to everything being our size but like IÆm in a child environment all the time so when an adult comes in theyÆre like ōI sit down here?ö I mean I promise it will hold you but its low to the ground everything is low to the ground so itÆs interesting when you go into an adultÆs doctorÆs office versus a kids office they notice that stuff and they know itÆs for them donÆt even ask if they can touch it.
Interviewer: I never really thought about that.
Interviewee: ItÆs not crazy it totally makes sense.
Until you start observing that stuff I never would have thought about it.
Right away if I donÆt want my kids to touch something then this is the level, like if itÆs up here or higher they wonÆt mess with it usually without permission.
But anything thatÆs down here they think itÆs their stuff.
Anything thatÆs on the coffee table theyÆll mess with it.
I you donÆt want them to mess with it put it up here.
ItÆs not just toddlers itÆs like my teens are the same way.
-Interviewee: Anything thatÆs like in this area is everyoneÆs.
Pets are the same way, is itÆs on their level, and they think that they can have it.
Interviewer: Gotcha, no I can relate to that.
So the next thing, weÆve already talked about who and why and where and now we get to what, which is what they would talk about.
What questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer?
Interviewee: It could kind of be playfulģ it could be what the roles are, like what do I have to do?
They should ask about whatÆs expected of me or what the expectations are.
Again, IÆm a teacher so I think thatÆs usually where everything starts.
Kids want to know, ōWhat do I have to do?ö ōWhat am I allowed to do?ö that kind of thing.
They always just want to know the rules first, theyÆre always looking for the rules.
As a parent, I also want to know what my role is.
Like I said, it was really great to come into this and be invited in as a parent.
Also, a couple times theyÆve said, ōDo you mind stepping out,ö ōAbsolutely, of course, as long as my kidÆs okay with that, IÆm okay with that.ö
Making it flexible.
So those are kind of big topics to hit on, just making sure it seems friendlier to the children.
If they know whatÆs expected of them from the get go.
Interviewee: If it is going to be more child led or patient led, letting them kind of knowģ I feel like would be helpful.
Interviewer: So it sounds like clarifying expectations and roles.
Should they beģ should they find out about the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life?
Would that be useful?
Interviewee: I think so.
Is CBT used for anything else?
Is there other-is it-are most of the people who would be considering CBT, are they people with anxiety?
Is it only anxiety, you know?
Interviewer: Uhmģ So asking those types, finding out if that would be helpful?
Interviewee: Well if, I wouldnÆt talk about anxiety if that specifically-if CBT is used for broader things.
But if it is primarily, you know what I mean.
Interviewer: Got you.
Interviewee: I wouldnÆt want toģ
Interviewer: Right.
So, only if the video was designed for people who were coming in for anxiety would that be useful?
Okay.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think so.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
Should they ask about how it has worked for their kids?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Should they ask about how exposures work?
Interviewee: I would think yes?
I would say leave it all out on the table.
Or as much as possible.
ItÆs a lot to cover but, you know, give a quick little example of what and, you know, that might be enough as a quick little example of even if someone-if it was a casual, silly conversation.
Whatever, it could be a game show I could think of a million different ways.
ItÆs been the craziest day, guys.
Interviewer: Okay, Rightģ No youÆre okay.
Interviewee: But it could be a game show where thereÆs a quiz, you know.
Interviewer: Asking questions.Interviewee: WhatÆs it like, you know, whatever. An interview, I donÆt know. I know when I first saw it go down thatÆs when I was like woah this is what weÆre doing and then leaving and thinking that was so simple and so obvious. In some ways being like this is not going to do anything because of just how simple and obvious it was but then being immediatelyģ given examples-seeing personal examples with my child but oh my God it totally worked. Its working and itÆs totally useful. Because it did seem so simple, right why wouldnÆt we face your fears and why wouldnÆt we, you know. I think its almost sometimes giving the permission and the confidence that yes, this is what weÆre going to do and it is going to be okay. You are going to be okay. That kind of thing because at first I was sort of like oh this is like IÆm glad we didnÆt sign up for block off two weeks of our lives to do this because at first I was like this is very basic and very simple. But it got quick results and I remember immediately just being like wow thatÆs pretty cool. LetÆs see whatÆs next. Yup wow that was really cool too. Having my child feel the same way because the place of terror youÆre coming from feels so all-encompassing and for something so simple to give you such relief and control is nice. I donÆt know if there is any way to present that. I donÆt know if thatÆs other peopleÆs experiences, I certainly hope so.
Interviewer: WeÆre glad that itÆs your experience.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay, so presenting kind of like how that couldģ How it seems-
Interviewee: Yeah. What an exposure- what that might even, in a quick basic way showing kind of what the roles would be or what that might look like. A little-
Interviewer: Would including information about parentÆs roles and like what they can do to help, would that be beneficial as well?
Interviewee: I think, I mean IÆm a parent so I think so butģ
Interviewer: Right. And so especially IÆm guessing- well so would that be useful even if it was just one video or would that be better in a separate parent video?
Interviewee: In my mind I almost feel like you can do both in one but it would probably need to be longer than three minutes. I donÆt know how your content would go but I feel like a kids one would be a little different than what a parentÆs one would be. It would be more a little factual based whereas a kid one would be more experienced based. The role playing, like what itÆs going to look like. Again you said you didnÆt know if this was just going to be pediatrics right? The patients could also be adults.
Interviewer: No. Sorry I may have misspoke. All the patients will be pediatric. The only thing we havenÆt decided on what whether or not it would be one video or two separate ones.
Interviewee: I would think to separate ones.
Interviewer: So do you think having two separate videos would be beneficial but in addition would you prefer to have one five minute video or two separate three minute.
Interviewee: I would make it longer. I mean it doesnÆt even have to be 3 minutes just depending on how much content you have. You can probably keep kids for three minutes but you probably canÆt keep adults that long. You would keep me that long.
Interviewer: Good to know.
Interviewee: unless I got really sidetracked.Interviewer: So weÆre almost done and I really appreciate your time. We just have to go over the ōhowö the video would look. Just kind of the fun part of this. And then just kind of the take home message, then we should be done. So we talked about Loony Tunes before, are there any other animated movies that you like?
Interviewee: I mean everybody loves like; the minion stuff is like hilarious. And I also think like part of the reason why is because theyÆre not people. Like what are they, who even knows? So fun. ItÆs pretty entertaining, anything that have comedy is good. I use a lot of ōbrainpopö. I donÆt know if you know that, itÆs the robot and the girl in the classroom and they just love anytime they hear the robot noises they want like the MAKES_NOISE like heÆs very squeaky and they want all the extra stuff.
Interviewer: So they like, like the little squeakiness of the robot.
Interviewee: Yeah. Even my math curriculum has like animated stuff. And little monsters, they like the monsters too but they like the robots.
Interviewer: I mean its good to know that thatÆs what they enjoy.
Interviewee: Boys and girls alike.
Interviewer: Pretty universal robot. So my examples are going to be a little different from those. But IÆll let you look at those at your leisure. We have three options there, so as youÆre looking through them IÆm going to ask you a couples questions first about your overall preference. So which one you like the most and then if you think kids would like something different from what you like.
Interviewee: This looks like older kids to me.
Interviewer: Option 3
Interviewee: This looks a little more mature like teens. This feels very vanilla to me.
Interviewer: Options two seems kind of vanilla?
Interviewee: Like its friendly but this one is the one I like the best. It seems more creative and youthful but also thatÆs what IÆm drawn to.  I also really like it because you blend humans and I like anything that looks hand rendered and I think kids identify with that too.
Interviewer: So you like option 1 the best and you like the mixture of the animated and the hand drawn. You like that options personally the best but would that be the best for kids?
Interviewee:  I donÆt know. These are softer and playful
Interviewer: Option 2 is a little bit softer. Ok. What do you think should be the take home message of these videos? WeÆve kind of hit on this soģ Unless IÆm mistaken.
Interviewee: I feel like thereÆs so many buzzwords but you know it really is just like doable because you get results. You can see results. Nearly immediately without much doing on my part other than bringing my child here and getting him the space to be; whatever happens in there. And then just kind of being aware and I did get some tips like you canÆt be so nice. DonÆt be so reassuring or affirming. Just not like trying to fix everything. But like it really is doable; itÆs not a hard thing to do or take a lot of resources to do other than time and money. So I think itÆs pretty quick. User friendly. Again I didnÆt have to as a parent lead things or keep up with a whole lot like itÆs something that really empowered my child to own it and take it into her own hands for the most part.
Interviewer: That makes a lot of sense. You as a parent or you as a child that would be nice to get from the video.Interviewee: Yeah. Kids like to be empowered. I feel like thereÆs almost two schools nowadays. The kids that have no power and the kids that have way too much power. ThereÆs not many of the in between kids. I feel like anybody who feels like theyÆre in a place where theyÆre needing therapy like this is your thing to do for yourself kind of type thing and makes it user friendly. Again the parent itÆs not a thing where you have to poke and nag because usually whatever is on their list is usually on yours including everything else. It really wasnÆt a burden other than me getting her here and paying for everything. Again I think itÆs just everybody really likes it, itÆs convenient, you get fast results, itÆs very empowering for your child or it was for us. It just seems effective and also another thing is that thereÆs no side effects. I almost feel like there could be a parody video or comedy that would just probably be for me but like about how you know thereÆs all these happy people and theyÆre like ōyes, yes and you might die and your skin may fall off and everythingÆs burning but thereÆs still 27% of people that doģö Like everything is said with a smile on the face. Sounds so great but really what theyÆre telling you is terrible. Like this is not terrible. The risk that is involved in doing this method itÆs like pretty low risk for pretty quick results.
Interviewer: Well is there anything that I missed or anything important that I didnÆt ask about?
Interviewee: I donÆt think so. I just wish that this was more available like just to the public in general. Mental health has become such a big thing, especially with adolescence. Like I have to go to trainings all the time about all these things and IÆm in the front lines with peopleÆs kids that are going through all kinds of crazy stuff all the time and its intense and I feel like we get a lot of feedback about our school like ōWhat are the resources?ö and some donÆt even know. ItÆs like thereÆs too many options or not knowing who to ask the right questions. So of course IÆm always like ōyour pediatricianö. ItÆs almost like an alternative therapy but once you say ōalternative therapyö some people immediately think itÆs like a chant in the woods or something type thing or youÆre going to sign up for this big weird thing so it would be great to have. I think itÆs great what you guys are setting out to do and succeeded. People would watch a quick video that gave just enough information to be like ōoh, maybe this is something we could do.ö
Interviewer: Well I think that is a great note to end it on. Unless did you have any questions?
Note-taker: Nope I think weÆre good.
Interviewer: Well thank you so much for your time. You were very very helpful.
Interviewer: Here we go. Okay, so thank you for meeting with us today. So, as IÆm asking you questions, itÆs going to be about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the therapy that we do here. But cognitive behavioral therapy is a little bit of a mouthful so IÆll refer to it as CBT.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: And you can refer to it as CBT if youÆd like. So to start, could you tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT?
Interviewee: Basically just helping with whatever issues- I mean I think ofģ specifically what [NAME]- you know just helping with the issues that she has.
Interviewer: Okay. When you say issues, generally what are you speaking of? Could you elaborate a little bit?
Interviewee: [NAME] has anxiety.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: She has always been a... high anxiety child so. She has anxiety issues.
Interviewer: Thank you.
Interviewer: Okay. So could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words? How would you explain what CBT is?
Interviewee: That is not an easy one for me.
Interviewer: The best you can do.Interviewee: ģTalking, a lot of talking andģ discussing what is happening throughout life and how to work through whateverģ whatever issues have come up throughout life basically.
Interviewer: Okay. Perfect. So when you first learned about the therapy we do here, CBT, do you remember any questions that you had about the process or just CBT in general?
Interviewee: No. Things had become so chaotic in our life at home. You know, we went to our pediatrician andģ just said please help and she said go here and we said okay.
Interviewer: Okay. Did you know anything about CBT going in?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: No? Okay. So how much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet, or other people in general?
Interviewee: Nothing.
Interviewer: Nothing? Okay so you didnÆt know anything. So thinking about your experience with CBT were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing or- yeah, that were confusing?
Interviewee: No. You know, we didnÆt really have a lot of discussion about, you know, what was going to happen or- it was just everything had become so incredibly chaoticģ it was, something has to happen and something has to change. Help us and the pediatrician said do this and we were doing this.
Interviewer: Okay. So if someone were to ask you about CBT, what would you want to tell them if they were about to start the therapy?
Interviewee: For us, itÆs been- for us specifically with [NAME] because we have- weÆve done it with [NAME] and, you know, weÆve got the younger ones in therapy now also for different reasons butģ for [NAME] itÆs been extremely helpful. She obviously still has anxiety, I donÆt think thatÆs something thatÆs ever going to change. ItÆs just part of her personality and who she is. But we can talk her throughģ panic attacks and calm her down just through talking andģ but having another outlet in a different person for her to talk toģ is absolutely a wonderful thing for her to have.
Interviewer: Okay. Great. So when you think about how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it, can you think of three words to describe how you felt? I know it would be kind of a weird question butģ
Interviewee: I didnÆt really know anything about it, at that point. Soģ
Interviewer: So when you first learned about it. After it was explained to you, did you have any thoughts in your mind about CBT? That could be in 3 words.
Interviewee: I donÆt really know how to answer that because that was so ¢ that was so long ago. IÆm sorry.
Interviewer: Okay. ThatÆs okay. Maybe weÆll circle back around to that question. So the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety so if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life, what would you say?
Interviewee: I feel likeģ forģ for us, I think a lot of [NAME] had to do with external factorsģ I think itÆs always, you know, there as a part of her personality but I think external factors exacerbate it. I think weÆve had a lot of family drama, which for her triggers that.
Interviewer: So you would say family drama is one of your external factors?
Interviewee: Correct.
Interviewer: Okay. Are there any other external factors that exacerbate her anxiety?
Interviewee: School drama, which sadly being a teenage girl, is a factor of life.
Interviewer: Yup. Okay. These are good examples. So what is important for other patients to know about how anxiety becomes an issue? So like you said external factors like school, family. What would be important for patients to know when starting CBT?
Interviewee: It has to be a very honest process. ThatÆs one of the- thatÆs one of the concerns I had with [NAME], you know, because sheÆs very reserved and closed off, is that she wouldnÆt be-she wouldnÆt give it a chance and really open up to anybody. So, it has to be a very honest process.Interviewer: So could you tell me if there is any specific skills or areas that CBT targets? It could be in your experience with your daughter.
Interviewee: You know, I donÆt know because we donÆt- you know, [NAME] and I- we donÆt talk about her sessions. So she keeps that as her time for whatever she wants to discuss. I know she has been much more open and communicative with me since sheÆs started therapy which... is a wonderful thing.
Interviewer: Okay. Good. So, as a parent, what is your involvement with CBT with your daughter-daughters?
Interviewee: Well, I bring them obviously.
Interviewer: Yes.
Interviewee: But, you know, if we have anyģ big events that could trigger anxiety or that I think their therapist needs to know about, I will let their therapist know about those issues. But other than- other than that, thatÆs their time to discuss what they need to discuss.
Interviewer: For other parents, what would be useful for them to know when bringing their child in for CBT?
Interviewee: I think thatģ what I really liked was having that first initial meeting with the therapist to discuss overall, big picture what was going on. To kind of go over what the issues and kind of what the goals were. And check in periodically, especially when the life events happen.
Interviewer: So have you ever heard or read about any scientific articles about CBT or any scientific research?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: No. Do you think itÆs something we should talk about in the videos about CBT? Do you think that would be beneficial to include scientific research?
Interviewee: Yeah I think that would be helpful. That would be good information to put out there.
Interviewer: Did you know about somebody elseÆs experiences with CBT? Did you know anyone else who was in the therapy as well?
Interviewee: I have personally had therapy soģ
Interviewer: Oh okay.
Interviewee: I know that itÆs helpful.
Interviewer: So you would say that itÆs positive?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay. So as we said, we are trying to develop short videos about CBT so this part of the process is about talking about the video itself. So the setting, the characters, what they would be doing. So first we have to decide who would be in the video. So what characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: I guess that depends on your age range.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: That youÆre targeting.
Interviewer: So the videos would be for parents and children so weÆre not sure if weÆre going to be doing a separate video for parents or a separate video for children. So if it were one video for both children and parents, what do you think the characters should be?
Interviewee: Probably a parent and child if youÆre looking for a parent and child video.
Interviewer: Should there be any non-human characters like animals?
Interviewee: Probably, if youÆre looking to target children.
Interviewer: Or superheroes? Kids like superheroes these days.
Interviewee: Yeah. Depending on your age- depending on the age youÆre trying to target.
Interviewer: So for the children should we include a boy or a girl or?
Interviewee: To target the boy group, youÆre probably going to want a boy.
Interviewer: Yeah. Or both that could be an option as well.
Interviewee: ThatÆs true.
Interviewer: So you said parents, should we include a doctor or friends?
Interviewee: ģFor the target group of- I mean is the goal of the video toģ you know, just help parents understand why itÆs helpful?
Interviewer: So the goal of the video itself is to inform people about CBT.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Whether thatÆs the parents or the child.
Interviewee: Okayģ Then probably a doctor. That would be helpful.
Interviewer: So now we know who would be in the video. We need to decide where they would be talking. So do you have any ideas of where they could be?
Interviewee: If youÆre going to have a doctor, probably in a doctorÆs office. You know, or if itÆs a therapist then a therapists office.
Interviewer: So should we have anything about at home or at school? Or even somewhere unrelated.Interviewee: ģA parent, you know, like a parent-child relationship could beģ at home or even in a vehicle. I know a lot of parents, you know, thatÆs where they spend a lot of time with their kids.
Interviewer: In the car. Going to school.
Interviewee: In the cars. Right.
Interviewer: Okay. So now that we have the setting and the characters, we have to decide what they would be talking about. So weÆve already started talking about CBT itself. So what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and get answered?
Interviewee: That I donÆt know. Because I didnÆt know anything about it. It was just a last-ditch effort becauseģ [NAME] was a disaster. Iģ I mean [NAME] was falling apart.
Interviewer: So should they find out about CBT- about the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life? So should they talk about anxiety itself and how it becomes an issue?
Interviewee: I think thatÆs a great idea. I mean, I wish- I wish somebodyģ had, you know, said something to us before [NAME] had reached the point that she did, you know.
Interviewer: So now we get to decide how the video will look so we have a couple of examples. Here, and IÆll let you look through them. ThereÆs 3 choices, so you can look through these and tell me what you like about them, what you donÆt like about them, and what you think would be the best choice for our video-videos.
Interviewee: I donÆt like theģ option 2.
Interviewer: So the vector art?
Interviewee: Yeahģ I donÆt know that option 1 with interview style is going to do well withģ kids though. Getting kids to pay attention.
Interviewer: And the third option?
Interviewee: ThatÆs kind of comic book style which wouldģ I think kids will like.
Interviewer: So you would say that the 3rd option is your favorite? Orģ
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: How-why do you like the comic book idea. So you said you like this one the best, what makes this one the best one?
Interviewee: I think kids areģ into- not so much teenagers these days butģ the younger kids are into reading comic books. Books, not the actual comic book style but comic book style books. These days. So, you know, itÆll catch their attention as far as the graphics go. My 7-year-old, thatÆs her favorite is the comic book style books.
Interviewer: So option 3 it is. So, now that weÆve figured out how it would look and where it would be, whoÆs in it. What do you think the take home message of the videos should be?
Interviewee: ģThat itÆs definitely okay to getģ help and support. You know, I still think thereÆs some sort of stigma attached with therapy and counseling for a lot of people which is ridiculous. Not only that and you knowģ I donÆt know maybe some of the benefits?
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: I donÆt know how to work all that in but.
Interviewer: Of course. So circling back around to that 3 word question. Now that weÆve talked a bit about CBT, do you think you could- do you think you could think of 3 words that you would use to describe CBT and how you feel about it?
Interviewee: How I- excuse me, how I feel about it now or how I felt about it then?
Interviewer: I think either or, you know, youÆve experienced it with your daughter so how does it make you feel?
Interviewee: How does it make me feel? Hopeful.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Three wordsģ Three words should not be hard to findģ
Interviewer: So hopeful is a good one. So if you canÆt think of 2 other ones, itÆs okay. But if you could add a picture to your word, hopeful, for CBT. What would it be?
Interviewee: Just one picture.
Interviewer: Whatever you can give me.
Interviewee: Me and [NAME] sitting on the couch like this.Interviewer: Okay. So if you canÆt think of 2 other words, thatÆs alright. But hopeful is a good one. So thatÆs all the questions I have. Do you think there is anything that I missed or anything important that you wanted to talk about CBT?
Interviewee: ItÆs been extremely helpful for [NAME].
Interviewer: Fantastic
Interviewee: It really has.
Interviewer: Well, I think thatÆs it. Thank you so much for participating.
Interviewer: Alright, thanks so much for meeting with me today. I am with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists working on a project to make videos about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the therapy thatÆs done here at this clinic. So cognitive behavior therapy is a mouthful, so IÆm going to refer to it as CBT throughout this interview and we just want to get your perspective and your general thoughts about the therapy. So to start, could you tell me what comes to mind when you think of or hear CBT?
Interviewee: CBT? Um well it is a technique used for the treatment of variety psychiatric psychological disorders where you try to use gradedģ graded and guided approaches to modify the responses and the anxiety associated with particular types of responses often through exposure or other sorts of I guess controlled environments and providing a safe environment for individuals toģI guess uhģ become cognitively aware of their physiological responses to adverse stimuli that cause them anxiety or distress.
Interviewer: So that sounds like thereÆs, to sum everything up, it sounds like there are a lot of skills that are learned in CBT and that these are things are used to challenge anxiety.
Interviewee: Well I thinkģ I mean I think the goal of it is to ultimately give individualģ I guess tools whether theyÆre behavioral tools to help deal with you know whatever their adverse reactions are or their anxieties to teach them approaches and method that will work for them when they are not there. So I think there are combinations of bothģ you know guided exposures, but then also demonstrating how they can utilize those in the future.  [UNDERSCORE] it can be used alone or in combination withģYou know pharmacological therapy.
Interviewer: It sounds like yeah a lot of ways and techniques that you can combat anxiety with CBT. So speaking of anxiety, one of the major goals of cognitive behavior therapy is to kind of challenge anxiety. In your own words, if someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes problematic in someoneÆs life, how would you response? What would your explanation of that be?
Interviewee: Well I think anxiety if it leads to an adverse effect on your welfare whether that yours ability to function in school or in work or their home life or in their relationships then I would say that the anxiety is of you know concern. I think that can be difficult to define. How does anxiety specifically lead to adverse effects? I think that it depends on the different type of anxiety and what they and what their specifically concerned aboutģ  [UNDERSCORE] it sort of depends on, but overall how it affects the individual and their function.
Interviewer: Could you give me some examples of potentially how because I know you mention that it does varies on the anxiety. What are some ways you think that could look like?
Interviewee: Social anxiety if you are anxious about social interaction it could lead you to avoid situations where you are going to have to interact with individuals andģ so that could make it difficult for you at work or more extreme cases. You know not being able to carry out normal daily functions. So I think those are one type of anxiety.
Interviewer: Sounds like it affects multiple things. You are mentioning work, school, and relationships.
Interviewee: mmhm yeah yeah. I mean it can manifest primarily in one or the other.
Interviewer: ThatÆs where you say it varies based upon the person really.
Interviewee: I think also anxiety can often contribute to other psychiatric disorders like depression. It could coincident with other disordersģ exacerbate theirģ manifestations.Interviewer: So in your experience as a parent of a child who has gone through CBT, what was that experience like for you?
Interviewee: Well I mean I think overall itÆs helpful in terms ofģ you know providing  [UNDERSCORE] ģ I donÆt know. I guess for me I not really involved in the day to day. I only see the outcome. I would say at least for my older son certainly definitely seemed to help him and you know dealing with school and performance anxiety, you know those issues. So I think it has been positive for him. I think it has helped him gain perspective on what is going on. I think it helped to destigmatize it to a certain extent. I think it made him more self-aware of the issues and you know helped him deal with it so I think that there is some partial possible benefits.  So for me I guess it has been helpful. You know because of patient confidentiality you donÆt really have much insight to what is actually happening on a day to day bases. Somewhat dependent on what the child tells you whichģ so I donÆt have a good sense of what the individual activities he did or whatģ you know I have some sense they were essentially trying to you know throw curveballs and sort of disrupt you know such  [UNDERSCORE]  still function in a chaotic environment. I think there was an attempt to make it fun and enjoyable, not stressful. So I think that wasģ maybe something that I thought wasģ I kind of had a maybe bias that you know essentially it was more of a graded response and that you kind of helped people get over their level of anxiety withģ elicited.  I donÆt know I think I had an unpleasant association sort of with that idea that you would be sort of stressing them, and I think thatÆs what was most surprising to me was that it was not as stressful as umģ. That my son actually seemed to enjoy it and look forward to it, rather than being negative as something to get through. That was definitely notģ unexpected sort of so.
Interviewer: In what ways was that unexpected umm, like in what ways was that unexpected for you? It sounds like there was a different preconception kind of going in to thinking what it would look like.
Interviewee: I think that my preconception is essentially stress them out until the anxiety subsides and that they donÆtģ you know thatÆs a difficult process because you have induce the anxiety in order to show thatÆs itÆs not going to cause harm or the adverse  [UNDERSCORE] are anticipated are not actually going to happen, and to me that worries me from what I think. From what I heard there was a lot of humor, a lot of ways to sort of deescalate the situation and made it a less unpleasant situation than I would have expected.
Interviewer: Is that kind of the knowledge you acquired about it there being more perhaps to CBT than just the kind of like the mechanism side of things. Is that something that would be important for other parents to know if they are contemplating whether or not to have their child go through CBT?
Interviewee: When you say the mechanisms, do you mean like neurochemical reprogramming or do you mean the mechanisms in terms of what actually happens in CBT?
Interviewer: I think more the latter where in terms of you expose yourself to a stimulus to induce anxiety and then learn that the feared outcome is not actually happening, but you mention that also there seems to be some fun involved and there were other things that made it..Interviewee: Yeah I think that would be helpful.  I mean I think that would also depend on the skill of the practitioner. Unrelated thing, my older son wasnÆt treated here a long time agoģ you know had a run with CBT and it worked. It was more difficult for him. So I think it sort of depends onģ it can be dependent on the skill of the practitioner or it may also be dependent on the individual child and how difficult it is to them to deal with so. Yeah, but I think understanding that it is not going to solely an unpleasant experience both for the child and the parent. I think it is helpful. Although again, I think there has to be some realistic expectations, and I mean I guess it also depends on the CBT whether how much they are going to have an expectation that the parent is going to be involved. I think oftenģ therapy is relatively limited and you are going to have to have more outside parental involvement. So I think that can be challenging for parents. It can be difficult to them to put their child in that situation. It is unpleasant for them. So um yeahģ it goes against sort of your parental instincts. So I think that can be a challenge that kind of needs to be made clear to parents. That sometimes you are going to be asked or told to do things that are not what you would think, you know. Protecting your child is not alwaysģ the best way to move forward. I mean I guess the other thing is consistencyģ. And um yeah providing consistency because I think thatÆs important and I think thatÆs really hard, especially when you are dealing with two different parents. I donÆt know. I think thatÆs getting off topicģ I think yeah itÆs obviously very helpful to have parents understand what the processes as well as the child. What are the things that they are going to have to confront as they go forward and I donÆt know?
Interviewer:  Well what would you are some of those things that they would have to confront? Like whatģ you were giving some good advice to kind of parent in terms of what to expect, but are there any sorts of specific types of things youÆd say would be really useful kind of like as heads-up when some is first entering therapy, like what they should know of in order to be successful.
Interviewee: Well I think that the point aboutģ that you are going toģ the therapy may contradict your parental instincts. I think thatÆs important for parents to know. Yeah I mean I think you would have to be able to sit also with your childÆs anxiety as well I guess which is similar to that. I think that itÆs helpful to know that it will work, you know and I think ģ.  I think having something about that it at least for some cases it, it is most effective therapy. What else, ummģ yeah itÆs not going to be always unpleasant. ThatÆs the other thing is sort of the kids are quite are happy too, and they make progress. So I think thatÆs in some cases true, depends on the child I guess. Umm yeah I donÆt know. ThatÆs everything I would probably say.Interviewer: Ok. Are there things you wish you knew of that either it took time for you to learn or you still may not know the answer to?
Interviewee: Well I think one of the things is that itÆs not like a once and done sort of thing. ThatÆs itÆs an ongoing process. That even though you may deal with one particular anxiety that you know a very similar patters can arise in other soģ itÆs you know there could a whack-a-mole sense sometimes so itÆs not like they are going to come in and get the course of CBT and they are going to get cured and their lives are going to be perfect from then on. So I think that itÆs an ongoing process that and that you may need to come back for a tune up or whatever you deal with that. So I think understanding that itÆs an ongoing process and you know yeah and that it will require active participation on the part of the parents. ItÆs not something like you just say here take care of my kid. ItÆs not how it works. ItÆs more like a partnership.  I think kind of explaining that and sort of the expectations of the parents. It not like even with drugs I mean itÆs not like ok here. I think the other things is that itÆs not an either or choice.  I think a lot of people parents sort of have this preconception thatÆs it either drugs or CBT and itÆs not. ItÆs doesnÆt need to be an either or. I mean I donÆt know the statistics on how often it is combined but you know so I think thatÆs important to know as well as. This is a part ofģ
Interviewee: He ran away? [TALKING TO PERSON NOT ON THE PHONE]
Interviewee: He ran away. Yeah
Interviewee:  Screw this
Interviewee: Oh man
Interviewee: Sorry
Interviewee: Alright, IÆm heading out. Do you want me to get food on the way home?
Interviewee: Probably yeah
Interviewee: Okay. Bye
Interviewee: Bye
Interviewee: How long are you guys going to be.
Interviewer: 5 to 10 minutes at most.
Interviewee: OK not along, bye
Interviewer: So thatÆs actually a... well another question I had about this side of topicsģ if you had to describe CBT in three words, how would you describe it?
Interviewee: CBT in three words.
Interviewer: Without saying CBTģ. Or maybe three alternatively three words that come to mind in general when thinking about it.
Interviewee: Controlled exposure to reduce anxiety. ThatÆs more than three. Controlled exposures or anxiety.
Interviewer: Okay. So very much about the exposure side in terms of dealing with anxiety. ItÆs kind of the big thing that comes to mind when you think about it.
Interviewee: It is yeah. I mean I know thatÆs a component of it.
Interviewer: Ok um so I want to transition a little bit as I said at the beginning weÆre making some videos. A lot of these questions are meant to guide the creation of the videos, but more explicitly I wanted to ask you knowģ these videos were meant to be for the general audience we potentially may have parental videos and then kid videos or it may just be that theyÆre both um, but from your perspective who do you think should be in these videos? Like what type of characters should be included?
Interviewee: What type of character?
Interviewer: Right so you know and thinking about this should there be non-human characters and animals. Should there beģ
Interviewee: No I donÆt, no. I think it depends on your audience. For young children maybe you know. Animation or whatever, but for anybody 12 or older I would think that most compelling is going to be individuals who have gone through it talk about their experiences or whatever. That would be my thought
Interviewer: Ok, so people who have gone through it. So like patients it sounds like. Patients who have experienced this.
Interviewee: mmhmm, yeah.Interviewer: How would you feel about doctors or therapist treating them? Would you also include them in these videos?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so. I mean I think I would not start with therapist. I would start with patients and their parents.
Interviewer: So parents are important too.
Interviewee: If itÆs appropriate for age. I mean I guess that questions what age you are talking about.
Interviewer: So I think just for some information itÆs meant to be designed for 10 to 16 year olds which is arrange because obviously 10 year olds differ a lot from 16 year olds and there also the parents on top of it.
Interviewee: Yeah I would just make sure to have an age range of kids. I would start with the kids and their experience and then I would only you knowģ I guess it depends on who you are trying to convince. If you are trying to bring in kids then I would have them talk about their experiences first.
Interviewer: For the parental side, what do you think would be best for like a parent?
Interviewee: I thinkģ yeah seeing kids and other parents is good.  [UNDERSCORE] parental experience in there as well.
Interviewer: In terms of setting, is there anything in particular that kind of stands out as a setting for the video to take place in?
Interviewee: Um well I would say more.  I would personally think it would be better if it were an individualÆs home rather than clinical settings orģ yeah that would be my thought. I donÆt know. IÆm not sure I would think of
Interviewer: IÆm curious can you tell me why you lean towards like the home as opposed to a medical office or to a doctorÆs office.
Interviewee: Well 99% of your time you are in the home. 99% of the time you are dealing with issues there.  [UNDERSCORE] and your looking how is your life going to be outside of there you know.  I think itÆs maybe appropriate when you are talking to a clinician or whoever and say ok you know these are tools we used, these are the things we do, or whatever. We have that in a clinical setting, but I think putting people in a clinical setting turns them into patients rather than people. So I think if you want to appeal to people put in a home setting, not a clinical setting.
Interviewer: ItÆs not medicalized
Interviewee: Yup. They are not patients. They are people.
Interviewer: In that line uh kids especially are spending a lot of time in school. How would you feel like school being in the background?
Interviewee: I mean school would be an appropriate environment. I think sometimes though these... I think it would need to be dependent on what the specific anxiety is or specific issue that they are dealing with. I donÆt think especially that age, I donÆt know. Middle school for sure. IÆm not sure.  I mean I think areģ less likely to be open about their issues that they are dealing with so. I think it can even be anxiety producing for some individuals. I think you know to some extent it would helpful to have it in a safe at least or what would be perceived as a safe environment for children.Interviewer: Ok. Um looking at the subject matter what they will be talking about. What do you think will be the most impactful subject in terms of what type of things will be spoken in the video?
Interviewee: I donÆt know. I mean I think it will be important to have a range of issues and different types of issues and different  [UNDERSCORE].  And I think that it is important to have arc and kind of showing how individuals sort of are able to progress and you know how they felt before, where theyÆre going, and you know how they felt about the process along the way. So I think those are important. I donÆt know how much time you have umm yeah. So I think a variety of ages. I think you know things that areģ you know I would have a range of concerns from common to quite unusual.
Interviewer: So it sounds like there should be breathe in terms of whatÆs spoken about and also like as you mentioned arc, more of a story rather than just information being thrown kind of at the viewer. ThatÆs what IÆm hearing.
Interviewee: Yeah I think an arc is helpful because at least it says ok you know it doesnÆt necessarily have to be a completed arc and I think in some ways that often would be important not say this is done, but ok this is what it was like before. It was really difficult. This is what we did, you know. This is how the parents helped and dealt with it. This is where we are know, you know. Go forward from here whatever. So notģ I think thatÆs helpful right I mean becauseģ. I think if you just talk about the process and not show what the outcomes are it wonÆt be very helpful.
Interviewee: Did you see my text? .... No you were busy. I have faculty meeting tonight  [UNDERSCORE] so I cannot do dinner. You can come down and get dinner for you and [NAME]. They offered and you can take a plate home for [NAME] if you want, but I have a faculty meeting. IÆm sorry, IÆm sorry [NAME]. [TALKING TO PERSON NOT ON THE PHONE]
Interviewer: IÆm transcribing so itÆs fine.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Or our RAs are transcribing so
Interviewee: So...
Interviewee: Well then
Interviewee: I apologize, but there is food downstairs if you would like to have a plate.
Interviewee: Well IÆll ask [NAME] what he wants to do.
Interviewee: OK thanks. Bye.
Interviewer: One last question about the what in the video. In terms about talking how CBT works, do you think thatÆs something thatÆs a good thing to put in the videos?
Interviewee: Yeah I think not detailed you know, but I think sort ofģ. You know illustrations on how anxiety levels go up and then repeated exposures can decrease. I think things like that are helpful kind of just explain to them what the overall theories and ideas are. I think that would be helpful to give them some, you know idea what the process is and what to expect, you know.
Interviewer: and um in...
Interviewee: and that everything is going to be different depending on the individuals and anxiety.
Interviewer: Right. Sounds like a lot of that is you know something you said throughout kind of like it is very individualized for different people and it varies. Not one size fits all. In terms of how the video should look, we have a few different styles I just want you to take a look at and IÆm curious if there is any one, thereÆs just three of them, if thereÆs any one in particular that stands out more than the others, or one that you really donÆt like.
Interviewee: What, what is it you are trying to do.
Interviewer: So this one the first option would be line art. So it would be pretty live-action and then it would have people able to draw, and there would be special effects where we can digitally alter it so people look like they are drawing things and [UNDERSCORE]  different line arts. So thatÆs the first option.Interviewee: Um I donÆt knowģ. IÆm not totally fond of that idea.
Interviewer: Ok, the second is more of what you would typically see as a cartoon. Something that you see, there are a lot of YouTube videos, instructional videos. That type of style.
Interviewee: Interesting. I donÆt know I mean I guess IÆmģ. I donÆt know. I guess IÆm not necessarily overly excited about the idea of umģ I donÆt know potentially maybe the vector art. I donÆt know I guess IÆm justģ I can understand that. I just donÆt understand why you need the other things rather than just having individuals, children talk about it.
Interviewer: So it sounds like more of just kind of like doing general filming without having special effects. Do you think itÆs sufficient?
Interviewee: I donÆt know. It certainly would be my preference.
Interviewer: It would be your preference. Okay.
Interviewee: I mean if IÆm looking at stuff. I think I just fine it. I donÆt know distracting.
Interviewer: ok, ummm what should the take home message of the videos be? Like if there was one thing to really emphasize.
Interviewee: Well I think the thing to take home is that it works and that it takes timeģ. You are not going to lose anything from trying. It is a collaboration between individual and parents and the you know the therapist. ItÆs not going to work out without all three being involved.
Interviewer: Ok! Is there anything you want to add in terms of wrapping up? Any last thing you think is important for us to knowģ
Interviewee: I donÆt think IÆm an average... I donÆt think IÆm uhģ I think I have a larger role. I may know more than what most parents will know so I think that I have a skewed perspective.
Interviewer: There is obviously going to be varying levels of parents and they come and go and itÆs important getting all those different perspectives. Thanks so much for talking. I appreciate it.
Interviewer: Thanks so much for meeting with me today. IÆm part of research team thatÆs looking at Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, itÆs the therapy that we do here at this clinic. With this project, we want to create some short educational videos talking about cognitive behavioral therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful, so IÆm just going to refer to it as CBT throughout the video. Okay? So letÆs start. Can you just kind of tell me what goes through your mind when you think about CBT?
Interviewee: Sorry we were joking about the stuff they sell at the gas stationģ So helping people to learn to recognize wrong thinkingģ or learning in a way to manage the way you think.
Interviewer: So learning ways to manage how you think. So it sounds like thereÆs definitely a lot ofģ a lot of it is about thoughts, would you say?
Interviewee: Yes. I would say yes.
Interviewer: When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, did you have any questions about what it looked like?
Interviewee: I did not. I mean I had heard of it before.
Interviewer: Okay. From where had you heard it from before?
Interviewee: When I first started hearing about it, it was after the Gulf War. It developed as a way to kind of help you deal with stress after post-traumatic stress and such. IÆve known others who have kind of used it as a way of therapy.
Interviewer: Okay, so have you had conversations with other people about CBT?
Interviewee: A little bit, yes.
Interviewer: What information from them did you receive, about this treatment?
Interviewee: Not a whole lot other than the basic idea that itÆs kind of helping a person recognize maybe when theyÆre not thinking correctly or helping recognizing experiencing symptoms that may be not quite right, like anxiety- you learn to recognize the symptoms of anxiety and learn how to manage those a little better.Interviewer: If someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life, how would you respond to that, from what youÆve learned from this process?
Interviewee: High levels of anxiety can definitely hinder your ability to interact with others, or maybe overreact to help what people say to you. So it can definitely hinder your ability to fully function.
Interviewer: What do you think is important for other patients to know about CBT?
Interviewee: ItÆs not painful.
Interviewer: Can you elaborate more on that?
Interviewee: IÆm not super familiar on how the therapy goes on that, but what I understand is it is something that will help you to understand yourself better.
Interviewer: So are you saying youÆre not as familiar with maybe the mechanisms?
Interviewee: Yeah, IÆm not really familiar with the mechanisms of how itÆs done.
Interviewer: Right. Are there things you wish you knew, like in terms of how CBT operates, do you wish you had more knowledge on that?
Interviewee: I guess so, yeah. It would probably be useful if I knew more about how it works. Maybe how a typical session might run.
Interviewer: Okay so like the structure of a normal session, of what that looks like. You think that would be useful information for other people to see as well?
Interviewee: I do.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone whoÆs just starting CBT? Is there any piece of advice you would give them, whether it be someone whoÆs going in themselves orģ weÆll just start with that- someone going in for themselves.
Interviewee: I definitely believe mental health is very important, just generally. If you were sick, physically sick, I mean you wouldnÆt think much about going to the doctor, and they give you something to try- I mean we would try pretty much anything that they would suggest if we thought it would help. So CBT, from what I understand is something that has been successful. You know, people have had success in improving their mental health, so I would highly recommend trying it.
Interviewer: In terms of youÆve heard itÆs successful, have you encountered anything from a scientific perspective? Have you encountered scientific articles or anything like that?
Interviewee: No, I have not. Nothing deeply scientifical.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell parents, like if there was a parent of a child who was going to go into CBT? What would you want them to know?
Interviewee: I would think for me as a parent, sometimes itÆs a little hard for me to understand what exactly is going on in the therapy, and I think sometimes you expectģ not expectģ I mean you could have really fast results, but I think you have to understand thereÆs a gradual process that does take time to go through, for a patient to work through.
Interviewer: So itÆs not necessarily an instant thing? As nice as that would be?
Interviewee: Right. It would be nice. I donÆt know if adults, but it was proved that kids, it seems takes a while for kids to kind of get that relationship with a therapist. It would be nice if we were all really truthful when we went to the doctor. That was one of my favorite shows that I used to watch was Doctor House. Everybody lies- I hope thatÆs not true. I suspect for kids maybe itÆs not that easy to be fully truthful in the beginning.
Interviewer: If you had to think of or say three words that describe CBT to you, or three words that come to you head when you think of CBT, what would those words be?
Interviewee: Three words, okay. So itÆd be like ōDevelop better habits.ö
Interviewer: [UNDERSCORE] talked about earlier how youÆre identifying things that may not be the most useful for yourself
Interviewee: Yeah.Interviewer: Going briefly back to other people, I know that you said you know other people that have gone through CBT. Do you know if their experience was a positive one? Negative?
Interviewee: I know one person who tried it, and he didnÆt really give it enough time. It was a relative, and it was pretty exciting when I heard about it, but it was something that he didnÆt try for very long. These things take time.
Interviewer: Yeah thatÆs kind of going with what you said earlier, right? ItÆs not necessarily a quick fix. ItÆs going to take some time.
Interviewee: Yeah. Probably not going in once and done kind of a thing.
Interviewer: Right, definitely. Could you tell me a little bit about the... you touched on this a little brieflyģ about challenging negative thoughtsģ what are some other areas that CBT targets? What skills do you develop from it?
Interviewee: Not just challenging negative thoughts, but also, I think was part of it, recognizing maybe when you are more, I think anxietyģ when you are feeling moments of anxiety, if you can recognize that, then you can draw from things you learned in CBT to help you manage it better.
Interviewer: So a little bit like a toolkit.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Or almost like exercising a little bit, build up your strength.
Interviewer: Right. What was the role of feelings in CBT, would you say?
Interviewee: Feelings, emotionsģ I donÆt knowģ IÆm not sure about that.
Interviewer: How about like behaviors or actions?
Interviewee: Behaviors is probably more like to, you react- you behave in a certain way. Maybe youÆre in a crowd and you donÆt want to participate or whatever the situation is, maybe in that type of therapy you might learn to recognize that those situations are notģ recognize whatÆs happening in the situation and realize itÆs something you can improve or change.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Cool. Awesome. So IÆm just going to turn to more of the video side of things. So thinking about these videos thereÆs kind of a twofold thing, where on one hand they want to make videos for kids, but weÆre also contemplating the use of creating videos for parents. So when you answer these questions, feel free to think about both sides of things, like what you think would be useful. So, first in terms of the who: if weÆre making videos like this, who do you think should be starring in these videos?
Interviewee: Who would be starring in the videosģ letÆs seeģ I see a lot of those animals here. I never thought about that. We tend to see things like putting famous people on lately and doing little video bits that you see on TV for mental healthģ spokespersons. Sometimes I think that helps because it helps bring those topics out and make them seem a little more normal. IÆve also seen videos where they use maybe people who had gone through the therapy, and as a result of that had improved. Those were also good so they can explain how it helped them. I donÆt know if youÆre thinking about live action videosģ
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah! ItÆs something weÆll get to.
Interviewee: Yeah or animation or cartoons is what we started on here, and so maybe different as an adult, IÆd probably relate to the non-cartoons better, but IÆd think children could relate to better to something like a cartoon.
Interviewer: Looking at the characters, so what would you say would be important for the parent? [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewee: From a parent, weÆre looking for answers. WeÆre looking for ways to help our children. And from a parentÆs perspective, a video, they might relate more to adult type characters, and maybe theyÆll relate to how theyÆll help their family or help them.Interviewer: How would you feel about there being doctors, for instance?
Interviewee: Doctorsģ I donÆt knowģ thatÆs a good question on that. IÆm used to seeing on TVģ you know, those TV doctors that are usually not real, so IÆm not sure if IÆd relate well to that or not. I would probably relate more if it was like a parent or somebody from that level, someone more relatable.
Interviewer: That makes sense. So transitioning a little bit to the setting, what would be some good settings that we could have the video in?
Interviewee: I guess maybe more of a reenactment. Maybe you might start with a scene where somebody is encountering some kind of mental health challenge, and maybe thatÆs the starting point so you can identify what type of challenges people would have and then transition into entering therapy. I donÆt know how long this video is going to beģ transitioning into what kind of benefits you can bring through therapy or CBT and then finally having the final result of the miraculous cure- something to see the benefit out of it.
Interviewer: Sounds like showing the whole process- the problem to how it gets resolved.
Interviewee: Right. So maybe in the beginning you might relate to the person youÆre watching because youÆre saying, ōOkay I can relate to that scenario.ö Then maybe understand a little bit about how the process helped. You probably want to do this in like 30 seconds, right?
Interviewer: That, weÆre still deciding.
Interviewee: Our attention span probably isnÆt that long.
Interviewer: Well I guess from your perspective, how long do you think a video like this would be, like at what point are you saying, ōThis is too long.ö
Interviewee: I was thinking about that. ItÆs almost like youÆd want a short part of it to get peopleÆs attention then maybe break off into a more detailed discussion. Could almost see that, like thereÆs some kind of carton video then it breaks off into the doctor coming in talking a little bit about what is happening, what the benefits would be, then maybe back into a videoģ might help to at least get somebodyÆs attention in the beginning.
Interviewer: So multi-segmented, perhaps? Help them pay attention.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: Just in terms of specific locations, would you think that showing things at home would be relevant or important?
Interviewee: Yeah thereÆs a lot of possible scenarios for kids. ThereÆs school where youÆre maybe having peer pressures that you encounter, and of course home life is always a challenge for us all, isnÆt it? So, because thereÆs so many things you could treat with CBT, IÆm not quite sureģ itÆd be hard to pick one.
Interviewer: What about like the therapistÆs office?
Interviewee: TherapistÆs officeģ probably could, just to get peopleģ you know, when I grew up, when I was a kid someone going to the therapistÆs office was kind of stigmatizing. At least from my perspective, IÆm past that, but maybe not everybody is.
Interviewer: How would you address the issue of stigma, especially for parents who are from an era where, as you said, it was more stigmatized?
Interviewee: People like my age, IÆm talking to my parents, that age particularly, their response now is, ōWe wish we knew those things back then.ö Their main response is, ōWe didnÆt even know there was options out there for improving mental health.ö  I think itÆs important if youÆre looking at it as being something more stigmatizing now or you donÆt want your neighbors to know that youÆre going, years later itÆs definitely something youÆd look back on and say, ōI wish I had taken those steps at that time.ö
Interviewer: So sounds like growing up  [UNDERSCORE] the opportunity is valuable.
Interviewee: Right. So you may not recognize it on the front end, but you will definitely see it on the back end.Interviewer: So we touched a little bit on this piece, about what they should talk about, but like further going into that, what types of questions should be asked or answers should be had?
Interviewee: Somebody whoÆs looking at thisģ hmmģ IÆm not sure about that. IÆd say IÆm not sure about that.
Interviewer: Should there be an explanation perhaps of how anxiety becomes a problem? Is that something that would be useful?
Interviewee: Yeah I thinkģ or that thereÆs help out there to improve those things. ItÆs not something that you should justģ itÆs not necessarily something that you can just deal with on your own. You might need some help.
Interviewer: So like recognizing it as an issue.
Interviewee: Right, like if you want to be a professional football player, youÆre probably going to recognize you need training, you need coaches; thereÆs a lot of things you can do that can help you. Maybe thereÆs some analogy there tooģ you know, itÆs like in therapy can help youģ thereÆs somebody thereģ you can definitely improve what youÆre doing. ThereÆs definitely probably more sports analogies you can give for kids, there might be other analogies kids or parents could relate to that scenario where you wouldnÆt think twice about getting help. If I wanted to learn tennis I would certainly want to hire a teacher rather than sit out there by myself trying to figure it out. So, in this case here, going into a therapist or somebody who can help you figure these things out a lot easier than trial and error.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Right, right. How about discussing how itÆs worked for others? I think you kind of mentioned that a little bit earlier. At least in your opinion, you saw that itÆs been effective. Do you think thatÆs worth discussing?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. I think itÆs been effective, just kind of watching it in my family, and yeah- I think so. When it came out that was the big excitement, CBT- there was a method that could perhaps give a lot faster improvements than the other forms of therapy did before that. That was the appeal I heard about originally, ōWow, thereÆs something that actually might have noticeable benefits that doesnÆt take 10 years of laying on a couch,ö and thereÆs no laying on a couch, as far as I know, too.
Interviewer: Should there be discussion about exposures and how they work?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so. I think itÆs something people can quickly understand how that would work, like youÆre having trouble with something- I talk about anxieties, thatÆs one IÆm more familiar with- and the idea of exposing yourself gradually to that. Eventually you can be exposed to higher and higher levels.
Interviewer: What about from a parent perspective? What types of things should be discussed on what is helpful for parents to do versus whatÆs not helpful for parents to do?
Interviewee: I had this discussion before with a therapist, and myself as a parent kind of frustrated like, ōI donÆt know what to do,ö is where a kind of found myself is like yeah, I want to help my children, but I canÆt figure out how to do it, and the one answer I got back that I liked was, ōComing here, that was a good idea.ö You find yourself maybe notģ thereÆs help out there, letÆs put it that way. Definitely you want to be involved as a parent. You donÆt just want to drop your kids off and pick them up at the end of therapy.
Interviewer: So it sounds like involvementÆs important, actually being a figure and being a part of the team.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.Interviewer: Awesome. So moving on to how itÆs going to look, so weÆre still toying with the idea. We do have this right here has 3 different options of potential kind of  [UNDERSCORE]. So you can take a second and weÆll go over that, and IÆm just curious of what your impressions of those 3 options are, like if thereÆs one that particularly stands out to you or you really hate one. There arenÆt necessarily the only things. These are heavy contenders, basically.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, not sure quite what I get from the one in the middle. Kind of getting this idea of something kind of beyond whatÆs inside of you. You want to think about too much math on the right. The one in the middle is a little cleaner I guess is kind of my first thought looking at it. The one on the left has got a lot going on there in terms of the picture.
Interviewer: [UNDERSCORE] variation on the line art side of things.
Interviewee: right, on the side of it on that, the people are all about the same
Interviewer: How about on the second page I think transitions a little bit more to a cartoony style.   [UNDERSCORE] kids, but what are your thoughts kind of on that style?
Interviewee: I donÆt know, IÆm kind of big on the carton. Maybe the one in the middle. Maybe part of it is itÆs easier to relate yourself to a cartoon than it is toģ itÆs hard to get a generic looking person. ItÆs a little harder to relate to a person when youÆre looking at a picture. The cartoons, I think, have the advantage  [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewer: Right. How about for like a parent video? How do you feel about doing a cartoony style like option 2?
Interviewee: Parents are different, right. For me, I grew up watching cartoons Saturday morning, so that was also my perspective on it, and I watch a few more now because theyÆre a little more mainstream, but um, I think they could relate.
Interviewer: Again, I just wanted to thank you for participating in the research, and thank you for being with us today. Of course, you know what the CARTOONS study is about. Basically, we are creating educational videos describing what cognitive behavioral therapy is, itÆs the kind of therapy that your child is receiving here, and cognitive behavioral therapy is so long, itÆs such a tongue twister to really say, weÆre going to be saying CBT, just to help out real quick with that. So to start out, please tell me what comes to mind when you first think about CBT? ThereÆs no right answer.
Interviewee: As the parent of the child in it?
Interviewer: Yeah, from your perspective. From what you know. IÆm sure youÆve sat in on some sessions or he has homework and stuff like that, so just tell us, from your perspective, thereÆs no right or wrong answer, what you think CBT is.
Interviewee: Having help from somebody else to work through whatever issues youÆre facing.
Interviewer: When you sat in on the session, do you remember a time where you were explained to exactly what the treatment would look like or anything like that with CBT?
Interviewee: Well, what goals they were going to work on, yes, not really in what way.
Interviewer: Okay. Could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words, how would you explain what CBT is, if someone were to ask you?
Interviewee: I donÆt know a lot of specifics. ItÆs just good to have a professional, someone whoÆs not directly involved in the situation. They tend to give more worth to somebody elseÆs opinion, the child does, versus just mom or dad telling them what to do.
Interviewer: When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what questions you had for the therapist?
Interviewee: Not really. We had an experience previously where he basically refused to even speak. So it was like, ōHow was that going to work? How do you handle that?öInterviewer: How do you handle a child not speaking?
Interviewee: Yes. HeÆs literally spent lots of sessions not saying a word.
Interviewer: Okay. So that was a question that you had.
Interviewee: Yes, like how do you handle that? Here, I didnÆt have anything specific.
Interviewer: Other than that, that was the major question, but other than that, you didnÆt have any other questions?
Interviewee: Yep.
Interviewer: Okay. What did you want to know about CBT when you first started sessions here?
Interviewee: I canÆt think of anything specific, just how it will happen, how we can help him, what to work on each week.
Interviewer: How much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet, or other people before coming here?
Interviewee: Therapy in general.
Interviewer: Tell me more.
Interviewee: Just experience- his older brother is autistic and has generalized anxiety so weÆre going through that with him, as well as group therapy for social skills training. My mother went to therapy for years, decades, so I just grew to her experience. I didnÆt really have any expectations, just getting help.
Interviewer: Did all or any of your experiences, or what you knew about CBT match your experiences here?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: How so?
Interviewee: ItÆs been going well for him, definitely making progress. One step at a time.
Interviewer: Thinking about your experience, were there any parts of therapy that were confusing?
Interviewee: I wouldnÆt say so, no. itÆs made sense. It can be slow going, obviously, but thatÆs to be expected.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone whoÆs about to start CBT?
Interviewee: Stick with it. ItÆll take time. You get out of it what you put into it- which is what I work with him on, because if heÆs not saying a word then itÆs just a waste of time. So yeah, just stick with it, youÆll see improvement, and you need to participate to help it work.
Interviewer: Think of 3 words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it. What would those words be?
Interviewee: Hope. Progress. Work.
Interviewer: Hope, progress, and work.
Interviewee: You got to work at it.
Interviewer: Okay. If you were to add a picture to each of these words: hope, progress, and work, if you were to add a picture to each of these words, what would it be?
Interviewee: Work I guess would just be like a notebook or something, like just thoughts journaling. Progressģ just like a graphic that I would attach to it?
Interviewer: Mhm.
Interviewee: Like a reward, like a ribbon or somethingģ reaching goals. Hopeģ sun? Something to look forward to. Happy.
Interviewer: So you [UNDERSCORE] the sun with happiness?
Interviewee: Yeah. Bright.
Interviewer: Okay so tell me a bit about why you chose each picture with each word. So you had journaling for work. So what was that for?
Interviewee: The thought that has to go into it. The whole thing of youÆre going to get out of it what you put into it.  [UNDERSCORE] the progress for him, we break down the small goals and reward him as he reaches them. So itÆs sort of like a ribbon, a generic, he doesnÆt get a ribbon, but itÆs kind of like a generic thing for meeting a goal. Then the hope I guess was just something kind of seen as positive or happy- the sun or smiley face or something.
Interviewer: Sounds good. The goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety overall, and if someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneÆs life, what would you say?
Interviewee: Even when things are going well, their anxiety can mess it up. My eldest child says that heÆs stressed when heÆs not stressed, because he thinks he should be. Like if things are going well, heÆs worried heÆs missed something. Yeah, so when things are going well or going right, then theyÆre anxious that thereÆs something else that theyÆre missing.Interviewer: So based off that, what do you think is important for other patients to know about anxiety and CBT?
Interviewee: Just in generalģ that it can be all encompassing, that it takes commitment, time. ItÆs not just a cure and it goes away. You learn coping strategies and you still work on it.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: Not specifically that I know of, I can make a guess.
Interviewer: Try your best.
Interviewee: We talk a lot about taking the hardship of it, being involved in it himself. [UNDERSCORE] phase hardship a lot.
Interviewer: What about thoughts? Or feelings or actions? Do you feel that CBT targets this area? How you heard anything about that in sessions?
Interviewee: They bring me in at the end, and sometimes he has something to say specifically. [UNDERSCORE] that itÆs hard to address something, if we can put it into words, talking through it all.
Interviewer: Are there any questions that you wish youÆd asked before you started the CBT sessions?
Interviewee: Not that I can think of. Not that I remember.
Interviewer: What was your involvement in CBT? So, what does your involvement look like within the sessions when you come in here?
Interviewee: He goes pretty much weekly. Depending on his session, they want us both there first. Sometimes itÆs just him then they bring me in for my view as well. Sometimes it matches, sometimes it does not. So they want to make sure weÆre on the same track. We review what they had been working on for the week. They give him homework, tasks to complete. Just being a part of that, one, because I can give input to how  [UNDERSCORE] and two, IÆm hearing about what theyÆre saying. Otherwise, he just leaves and he says he doesnÆt know.
Interviewer: So itÆs helpful, sounds like.
Interviewee: Yes. Because then I can say, ōWell what did they same about that?ö and he can remember what she said, because I heard it too. ItÆs not bad. ItÆs just being a tween child and some of it is that thereÆs a lot of information to take in.
Interviewer: So, knowing that, what do you think would be useful for other parents to know, from your experiences?
Interviewee: Just making sure that youÆre open about it all. Put your cards on the table kind of thing. If they donÆt have the whole picture, itÆs hard to make any progress.
Interviewer: So what do you think parents also need to know about sessions and how they work and
Interviewee: That you will be involved with it as well, itÆs not just your child; itÆs a team effort.
Interviewer: ThatÆs good. Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: Not that I can think of.
Interviewer: Okay so if not, do you believe itÆs something we should talk about in the videos that we are going to be constructing?
Interviewee: Probably. I mean, is it geared toward the parent or the child or both?
Interviewer: I believe it will be geared towards both.
Interviewee: [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewer: Not really sure how it will turn out, but just based off of youģ
Interviewee: Just major statistics or something that benefitģ just to show thereÆs science behind itģ the reason why you should participate.
Interviewer: Good to know. Did you know about somebody elseÆs experience with CBT prior to sessions here?
Interviewee: Prior to sessions here, yeah, my oldest child.
Interviewer: Okay so your oldest child had CBT, that was the approach used with your oldest child?
Interviewee: One of them.
Interviewer: Okay. Was it a positive or negative experience overall?
Interviewee: It was positive.
Interviewer: Based off of that what do you think would be useful to know, based off your previous experience with one of your children?
Interviewee: Just that there is hope in it, and that you can get help through it, that theyÆll help you work through it one step at a time.Interviewer: Seeing that weÆre talking about creating educational videos, well first before I even show you the different layouts we have of different themes, we wanted to know, based off your thoughts or opinions, we need to decide who will be in the videos. So what characters do you think we should include in the videos? Should there be any nonhuman characters such as animals, superheroes, or even children? Should we include a boy or girl? So, just getting a good handle of what you believe, as far as character wise, of what should be in the videos.
Interviewee: I would stick with people versus animals or characters.
Interviewer: Okay so superheroes would beģ.? Is that people?
Interviewee: I would just do regular people. Personally, but IÆm not a professional so I donÆt know.
Interviewer: No itÆs all about yourģ we just want to gather information so thereÆs no right or wrong answer.
Interviewee: Just people. Anybody can relate to people.
Interviewer: People. Okay so when you say people, are we talking about children, parents, friends, doctors?
Interviewee: Yeah, like the doctor, the parents, the patient itself- the child.
Interviewer: Okay so youÆre thinking patient, doctor, parents, and families.
Interviewee: Yeahģ the office and staff.
Interviewer: Should we include a boy or girl? Both?
Interviewee: Either. Both.
Interviewer: Either or okay. So now that we have an idea of the characters youÆd want and some of the videos weÆd develop, we need to decide where they talk, so what kind of setting? Would it be home or school, doctorÆs office kind of setting, or maybe outside at the park? Which one of those do you think? Or maybe a combination of those?
Interviewee: I would say probably home and office.
Interviewer: Home and office. The doctorÆs office?
Interviewee: Depending upon the part or what viewpoint is coming across. Like, whatever setting it happens in.
Interviewer: Okay, and why is that that youÆre thinking of the home and doctorÆs office?
Interviewee: Just because thatÆs where it typically would be discussed in the first place.
Interviewer: Okay. So itÆs familiar is what youÆre saying?
Interviewee: Yes, like a doctor sent us to therapy, or we talked about it at home as a family. A type of setting that itÆs already in.
Interviewer: Gotcha. Alright, so now that we know the who and the where, letÆs talk about what, like what should they talk about? So what questions about CBT, we kind of already talked about this, if you had any questions, but if you could think of anything for the videos, what questions about CBT do you think the characters need to ask and/ or answer within the video?
Interviewee: Well depending on how young the audience is  [UNDERSCORE], if itÆs going to hurt; if itÆs anything physical, because when you think of a doctor, you think more of a regular, general doctor. How long something might take. How long the session might be. Just about the confidentiality part- that itÆs a safe place to say anything. I canÆt think of anything else.
Interviewer: So do you think we should include how CBT, the explanation of how anxiety can become a problem in someoneÆs life, and do you think that should be discussed in the video as well?
Interviewee: Yeah. The why, the general why you should go to  [UNDERSCORE] how it can help, yes.
Interviewer: Okay. Should we ask how it has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: If it has worked?
Interviewer: Yeah. How or if it has worked for other kids.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Should we ask about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Maybe? In the first video?  [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewer: ThereÆs no right or wrong answer itÆs based upon parentsÆ perspective. What you feel you wouldÆve wanted to see.
Interviewee: Probably not initially.
Interviewer: Not initially. Okay. Should we ask about what parents can or canÆt do to help?
Interviewee: Yes. Definitely.
Interviewer: Why would you say definitely?
Interviewee: Because thatÆs always helpful. Suggestions and expectations.Interviewer: Good to know. So now weÆre going to talk about the how. So how the video will look like. We have 3 options of artistic styles. 1 being the line art option, 2 being vector art, and 3 being the comic art blended with live action, and so IÆll give you a second to look through them and have some questions for you later. You can let me know when youÆve looked through them and understand them- the concept of all three of them.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Okay so before we get started on that, I have to ask you: are there any cartoons or animated movies that you personally like? Try to list them off, what are some of them?
Interviewee: Sure. Well weÆre a big animation fam so of course, Disney and Pixar. We actually have a lot of anime as well. Anything from Pokķmon to Avatar.
Interviewer: So youÆre big on animation?
Interviewee: Yeah. Our family is, yeah.
Interviewer: So all of the above?
Interviewee: Pretty much.
Interviewer: Okay so based on the styles you see, the three options, which one would you choose? Which one do you like the most, more so?
Interviewee: Personally? Or which one do I think should be used in a video for kids?
Interviewer: Personally.
Interviewee: Personally, I like line art best of these three.
Interviewer: Line art. Why does it appeal to you the most?
Interviewee: Simplified. Gets the point across. ItÆs just less distracting.
Interviewer: Okay, so itÆs clear and concise. It sounds like you had two optionsģ
Interviewee: Vector art would be the second.
Interviewer: Vector art would be your second option? Okay, so it sounds like you had two options: you had a personal option and one for children if you could choose that one. So which one would you choose for children if you had the option?
Interviewee: TheyÆd probably take better to vector art.
Interviewer: Okay and why do you think that is?
Interviewee: ItÆs more common to what they see. They donÆt see a lot of the line art. The doodles and stuff like that.
Interviewer: Okay, thatÆs good to know. What do you think the take home messages from the video should be?
Interviewee: Trying to get them excited about coming. It has to be honest, that itÆs not easy, like thereÆs going to be work to it, but itÆs all worth it to give it a try.
Interviewer: Sounds good, and is there anything you feel like I missed? Anything important that I havenÆt asked about that you feel we need to take into account?
Interviewee: I donÆt think so. I mentioned the whole confidentiality part, because kids are often afraid to say something. I canÆt think of anything else.
Interviewer: Okay, well thatÆs it. After thisģ