Interviewer: , my name is …So I’m just going to ask you a series of questions similar to what and you all talked about during the consent portion.
So I want to thank you for participating and meeting with me today.
As we said this research is about finding and just creating a few short educational videos that basically describe what we do here with CBT and cognitive behavior therapy and what that really is and getting perspectives from parents as well as children as to what they think CBT is and what their experiences have been here as well.
And so instead of cognitive behavior therapy I might say CBT just because it’s a lot to say cognitive behavior therapy a bunch of times.
So if you hear me saying CBT, that’s what I’m saying.
Ok, sounds good?
Alright, so to start please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT?
Interviewee: Success.
I’ve seen great changes in my son the past.
Interviewer: Ok.
Could you elaborate?
What success have you seen from him?
Interviewee: I’ve seen him change his focus instead of getting stuck on certain things an certain elements hew moves on much quicker than he ever moved on before.
Interviewer: Ok.
Awesome.
Could you tell me what you know about CBT?
In your own words how would you explain to someone what CBT is?
Interviewee: I don’t know how to explain it.
Interviewer: That’s completely fine if you feel that you can’t explain it.
Interviewee: No, my wife is the one that got him started and kept up with it because I thought we were working on a total attention deficit until she told me.
Interviewer: That’s completely fine.
When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember any questions you had and what you knew about CBT prior to?
Interviewee: The questions was does it have to be everyday does he have to miss school so much?
Interviewer: Ok.
Were there any other questions other than that?
Interviewee: I was wondering if it was going to work.
Interviewer: Fair.
How much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet or other people?
Interviewee: Not very much.
Interviewer: Ok.
So thinking about your experience were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing for you?
Interviewee: No patient; I mean each instructor, each therapist was very clear in explaining what they were doing.
Interviewer: Ok.
Perfect.
What would you want to tell somebody who was about to start cognitive behavior therapy?
Interviewee: Like I would tell the m it works.
Like I said I was very hesitant at first to seeing how much time it consumes to be in this type of therapy.
And I was shocked at how quick it works.
Interviewer: So that’s what you would tell someone who was about to start?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Ok.
Think of three words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it.
What would those words be?
Interviewee: I was confused because I didn’t know what it was to begin with.
I have never really looked for it in a person so I never got to see it yet it was right there in my son.
So I don’t know the three words.
Interviewer: So if you could think of three words, three words that came to mind, do you think of any of; can you think of any?
Interviewee: I could think of the results but three words.
Interviewee: Anything that came to mind when you first learned about it when you were sitting there, maybe in session, maybe it was post talking to your child.
Interviewee: I didn’t know how complex it was.
Interviewer: So complex is one?
Interviewee: Yes.
Uh, I didn’t have much faith until he started to put it into practice and then I was pleased.
Interviewer: So we have complex is one.
Can you think of any other two by chance?
Interviewee: It was educational.
Interviewer: Ok.
Complex and educational.
Interviewee: Yes and you have to have patience.
Interviewer: So it sounds like your three words are complex, educational, and the third word would be describing how you felt when you learned about CBT
Interviewee: I was overjoyed.
Interviewer: Overjoyed.
Ok. So complex, educational, overjoyed sound like the three words that describe how you felt.
Interviewee: Yes, as he went through it yes.
Interviewer: Ok sounds good.
If you were to add a picture to each of these words what would it look like?
So pictures of complex, what would that look like?
What would a vision of complex look like?
Interviewee: It would be a little boy looking at a brief case and not realizing that someone was coming to the door and as it went on he knew what was coming in through the door without worrying about the briefcase.
That almost happened with my son.
Interviewer: That’s great.
And the second one was educational.
So if you think of a picture, a vision in your mind of what that would look like?
Interviewee: Educational there would be… just the joy of acknowledging things that were so clear.
You know things going back to like the briefcase, you know if the handle was crooked my son would concentrate on why the handle was crooked instead of everything else that was going on.
When he got passed that he was aware of things and it was very nice to see him not worrying about the crooked handle on the briefcase.
So it was very, it was educational to me because I never knew that his problem was stuck on the little things that concerned him.
Because I didn’t really understand OCD
Interviewer: Right.
So with that being said, your last word was overjoyed.
How would overjoyed look?
Interviewee: Again a little boy is sitting with the little caption above him going “Wow” because being focused on what he was focused on, he wasn’t focused on anything else.
It would be joy.
Interviewer: Joy that sounds great.
The goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety.
If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Interviewee: If anxiety became a problem?
Interviewer: Yeah, if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Interviewee: It’s in everyone’s life, constantly anxiety is there.
How we overcome anxiety is the problem.
I mean when someone cuts you off on the road, you know you get anxious and wonder when the next person will come in.
It shouldn’t interfere with what you have to do, but it does.
Interviewer: So based on that answer, what is important for other patients to know about that?
Interviewee: Anxiety is always there you know it has to dealt with and it has to be able to come quickly, as far as I’m concerned.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: I just know it held my son back on dealing with certain problems because he was stuck on what he was looking at.
I really don’t know how to answer that.
Interviewer: So do you feel like CBT targets a patients thoughts, feelings, or actions?
The cognitive behavioral therapy?
Interviewee: Yes.
I mean no actions are wrong however anxiety gets you stuck and there’s no action.
I don’t know that much about it, I can say it’s a result because of my son.
Interviewer: So that being said, are there any questions you wish you’d asked before starting CBT sessions?
Interviewee: I wish, the first day I wish I could’ve said is this really going to work.
But as it went on, I got to see that it works and how it works.
Interviewer: Ok.
So are there any other questions, other than that, that you wanted to ask before you started CBT?
Interviewee: I wanted to ask; yes I mean I wanted to ask why so many different therapists had to be part of it.
I didn’t know that because when I had therapy in my life it was always with one person, not a whole group.
And the group was really good because they had different ways of going about it, explaining it.
And ways of dealing with it.
But they all hit the focal point and it was amazing.
Interviewer: So what was your involvement in the CBT treatment?
What would be useful for other parents to know?
But more importantly with the first question, what was your involvement in your son’s treatment?
Interviewee: I got a clear sight of what was wrong with him.
I didn’t see it as clear as what the therapist was showing.
When he was getting stuck and when he just had to move on.
And I didn’t know that.
Interviewer: Were you involvement in any way in the CBT or the therapy sessions?
Or outside of sessions were you involved with his treatment?
Interviewee: Yes, I think as a parent you’re involved in every moment of your child’s life.
And I did learn to be much more patient, and I just, I did learn to not be so impatient with him.
Then he’d work things out in his own way and once they showed him the path to go through, he took it.
He’s a very smart boy and it was wonderful.
Interviewer: What would be useful for other parents to know?
Interviewee: That I thought it really was a disease that was incurable but it’s not.
Interviewer: Sounds amazing.
Sounds like there’s hope.
Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT and is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: That’s complex now, what’s the first part again?
Interviewer: Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: No
Interviewer: But um, If you were to, do you think that’s something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: Yes.
I have a blank of ok “what is this?” Just explaining what it is.
Interviewer: Did you know about someone else’s experience with CBT?
Interviewee: No but I knew some of his friends had it after he went through the therapy and I wound up seeing one of the here.
Interviewer: Yeah.
What would be useful for those individuals to know?
Interviewee: That’s hard to say because I’m a parent of one.
I only know these other boys from watching them from a distance.
So I don’t know how severe it is with them, compared to my son.
But I know all the boys  [UNDERSCORE] were very smart and this just allows them to be even quicker and smarter.
Interviewer: So now that we’ve talked about the CBT and your perspective of it, we’re going to start talking more so about the video that we’re going to start developing based on the feedback we’re getting from you all.
So first, we want to decide who will be in the video.
So what characters do you think we should include in the video?
Do you think there should be any non-human characters, like animals?
Do you think there should be superheroes?
Do you think parents, friends, or doctors should be considered?
So, what characters are you thinking of?
Interviewee: I’ve had eleven operations since I’ve lived in this city for 24 years.
I watched many videos of what was going to happen to me and the majority of them were boring.
I yawned right through all of them.
Some of them I wouldn’t even pay attention to, and maybe because you see the lab coat walk in and you see them start with their papers and start to speak and it’s like I’m lost at the very beginning.
With kids, superheroes are great.
You know if you think about that because everyone relates to Spiderman or Thor or anyone you come up with.
It’s like ok, but this guy
.
To see someone in a lab coat, like I’ve watched so many and with their tablet in front of them it’s like, I wouldn’t go there.
I…If there was a way to do it, I think a parent could be added just to show shock.
It’s like a kid doing something and a parent being in shock, like they never knew they could complete that so quickly.
You know, just being positive about it.
Interviewer: What about friends?
Would friends be a character you would want to see in the videos?
Interviewee: Friends, yes.
Not doctors.
Interviewer: So no doctors?
Um, when it comes to if an adult is watching this video, do any of these characters change for you?
If it’s an adult watching it, an adult who’s the patient, does he even care?
Interviewee: I think with mature people working on it can make it fit adults and children.
Like the superheroes fit.
Every adult understands almost every superhero.
Interviewer: Ok, so now that we talked about that, we need to decide where they talk, the environment; so the setting.
Would it be home, school, a doctor’s office, or maybe somewhere outside like a park?
What settings are you thinking of?
Interviewee: That uh, every setting is the opening to the story.
So you know, not in an office.
It’s like who wants to watch?
I did many commercials in my life and I think outdoors, I think where everyone is relieved to look at something.
Who feels relieved when they walk into a doctor’s office or in a room like this?
You know, I mean like when we did commercials it always had to be a colorful, bright, cheery atmosphere to begin with.
Then you could put anything into that.
Interviewer: Ok.
So after we talked about that, let’s talk more about what the characters would talk about in the video.
Right, so we’ve talked about CBT, but what would we want, what should they find out about the CBT explanations?
How should they talk about, like would you want to hear them ask questions about how CBT has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: A little bit.
You know I would like to see examples.
You know examples of; like I said my son was stuck because he put his bag down and it was all messed up and he tried looking at it and looking at it because it wasn’t to his standards.
You know I’d like to see him put his book down, glance at it and that’s it.
The result of it you know and it’s like I did a commercial once and they booked me as the assistant director in the commercial and they couldn’t get it done and it was about a girl coming up a pool very sexy and they wanted to see things from her but it was a minor, I think the girl was only sixteen, even though she looked like she was twenty.
And they couldn’t get the look on her face without talking about sex or anything that was part of it.
So jumped in the pool with her and we were talking and getting to know each other and finally I said “ok” and this was in the swamps too so it wasn’t a pool and I said “ok hey you know the feeling of you taking a nice hot shower and your coming out of the water, you know how that feels?
Now come out of the water and feel like someone just turned the cold water on you.
Let’s see your face” And we did it and instantly we got the shot.
And the director said “you didn’t talk about anything sexy Sid?” and I said “No I didn’t” you see that look; that shiver that she had came from that.
And so just looks, in a commercial, in visual things, you can do so many things so quickly, so easily.
Interviewer: Do you think that the video should talk about the explanation of how, the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life?
Interviewee: Yes it should be in there, it should be in there.
Interviewer: Do you believe that they, the characters in the video should discuss how exposures work?
Interviewee: Yes, but that’s putting an awful lot in there.
I mean for example.
My son would put his phone, whatever, right here and I can see him sitting there, looking at it.
Then the next scene I could see him putting a leg up, knocking over, catching it and just holding it and putting it and all of the sudden he doesn’t even look at it anymore.
He caught it and was like wow what a difference?
Sitting there, staring at it.
I mean you can do so much with video, so quickly.
Interviewer: So um, Should they ask about what parents can and can’t do to help in the video?
Should that be something discussed in the video?
Interviewee: That’s in every video, every video today.
Parent approval, you know.
And it’s like, we over; we over-parent out kids anyway.
So I don’t know if it has to be in there.
I in some way, yes as a role model in a way, but not you know “you should do this and not this” and they mock, kids mock that all the time.
Interviewer: So now there’s a fun part of the series of videos.
How do we decide, we get to decide how the video will look like, but first let me ask you before I show you some options: What kind of animated films or cartoons do you like to watch?
Interviewee: Um, gee anything that’s entertaining and witty.
You know like they put an old Mickey Mouse cartoon on, it’s like you’ve seen it, you know you can glance at it and enjoy it.
But you know something that challenges you and you know “what is this?”
....
It’s fascinating, like I said I’ve done lots of commercials and I’ve been in a couple of movies, I’ve been a ballet dancer my whole life, so I’ve done lots of filming in lots of different locations.
I’ve been to twenty three countries, I’ve been all over the world and it’s amazing what visual arts can do.
With basically not saying a word.
Interviewer: Yeah.
So I’m going to give you these options.
There’s three options here with different styles.
There’s the line art style, there’s a vector art style, and there’s a live action style.
So looking at these styles, I’ll give you a few seconds, or a few minutes to look over it.
Speaker – I don’t need minutes
Interviewer: Ok.
So if you don’t need minutes I’ll give you a few seconds to look over and it and tell me which one stands out to you and which one you like?
Interviewee: The movement, the girl with an image, the girl with that.
Interviewer: Well not with the movement but with the style.
As you can see this one has more line art.
Words are popping out more.
Motion graft texts aid in delivering the content.
The next one you have more of a cartoon-like structure where there’s live-action video illustrated with drawings.
And then the last one is more so like a blend with comic art and live action.
So it’s more action packed kind of style to it.
Given these three which one would you like to see from the video that we would be developing.
Interviewee: The first one, I like this.
The second one, I like this.
The third one, I like this.
Interviewer: If you had to choose one option that, one style for this video, which one of the three options would you choose?
Interviewee: I mean is this acceptable?
There’s only three at the bottom.
Interviewer: They’re just examples of how else….
Interviewee: Yeah I like that.
Interviewer: So you like option 1?
Interviewee: For instance, you’re balancing.
You’re balancing, you can be thinking of so many things while you balance or you can be thinking about nothing, and balance.
Which one makes it easy?
Interviewer: Ok.
So option 1 sounds like the one for you.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Ok with that being said, what do you think the take-home message of the video should be?
Interviewee: I want to see it again.
I like that.
I wish I could see it again.
Interviewer: That should be the take home message?
Interviewee: Absolutely.
Because if you want to see something again, you’re really interested in it.
Interviewer: Sounds good.
And um that concludes the end, but is there anything I missed?
Anything important that you feel like I haven’t asked about that you would like to see explained in the videos or anything I missed within the interview?
Interviewee: Um, you know you as students, as PhD students, you know I think, my wife has lots of PhD students in her lab and what I see with them is that they wind up staying more educational because they’re students.
You know but if you can break away from that, you know what you like and what you don’t like.
But then again you know what you might like for his project and that’s different, but you have good taste, you dress well your posture’s well.
You know what looks good and what doesn’t look good.
What you’d be interested in and what doesn’t.
Same with me, basically I like the same thing you like.
You know we’re on a level you know unless you haven’t been around the world and have been kept I the closet, you know.
Once seeing the boring, you know the commercials that challenge, and they always try to make them better, but how do you make a McDonald’s commercial better?
Interviewer: So if you have any other suggestions or feedback.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Always make someone think.
For instance, I told you the commercial that I did.
Now the film was from the back of the girl and she’s coming out of the water, shivering, you know, but you don’t know if she’s crying, or laughing, or giggling.
Now the intrigue of it is what’s so nice.
But when they came from the front you can see that she’s enjoying herself.
Interviewer: So the visuals need to be… what you think.
Interviewee: Yeah you take it; you can take it to places, you know, be creative.
Interviewer: Ok.
Sounds good.
Interviewee: You know like in dance class when things got boring they would say “show me how it feels if you stuck that finger right in that socket, right now.
Show me how it feels.”
You know?
It wouldn’t be boring in any way.
It’d be shocking, it’d be devastating, but it wouldn’t be boring.
Interviewer: So no boring.
Being creative not boring is what I’m hearing from you.
Interviewee: You don’t want to do that.
You lose people.
Like do it again or did you really stick that finger in that socket.
You know he’s a good actor!
Something like that.
But you see that’s not, you’re not in commercial video arts.
So I’m off in lala land.
But I’m just telling you what works.
And that’s only because I did commercials and I found out what commercials worked and what commercials didn’t work and why, and those creative people; they’re geniuses in a way, but they’re also, they stay in a box.
A lot of the geniuses are making money and they do; they know how to do things but they still stay in the box.
Sometimes you have to reach out of the box.
What’s amazing about this is that I’d do it again and how many things do you want to do again medically?
You know?
Not many.
You know?
Interviewer: Well, I’m glad you had a good experience here.
Interviewee: Yes it was better than good, it was exciting because it was results that I would enjoy and my son’s gonna enjoy.
So, it’s like you said it’s a feeling but it’s not just good it’s like you guys gave us a gift.
I don’t know I sound like I’m going on and on about.
I mean I’m trying to communicate with you and tell you how this was so, this was so close to home.
I mean with going and taking so many tests and seeing so many doctors.
Just to get diagnosed, we went to twelve different doctors you know and everyone’s got a different opinion and everyone’s got a way of doing things.
But this is a result here.
Interviewer: Well thank you for your feedback and thank you again for participating in this.
I know it took time out of your day but we really appreciate it.
And hopefully we can get a lot of feedback from this and develop an educational video to explain a lot of this to future patients in a way they can understand before they start therapy.
Interviewee: But I think you understand me and think you can sit there with someone who’s doing the art and your conception is so on that you can say “that’s not going to work.”
You can say it and you have to do it.
Interviewer: Well thank you for your time again.