Interviewer: Thank you for meeting up with us today.
So we’re working with a group of psychologists and psychiatrists, basically trying to get feedback about people’s experiences, patient’s experiences about the work that we do here, the therapy, more specifically cognitive behavioral therapy, and I’ll be saying CBT because it’s a lot to say cognitive behavioral therapy, so I’ll be saying that.
We want to develop a few short educational videos that will help future patients and parents understand exactly what CBT is, especially the therapy for the children.
So to start off, please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT.
Interviewee: Well in my daughter’s case, its anxiety issues.
Being around other people, what other people think about her; she’s always thinking about that.
Interactions with other people, going into places, like a dressing room, for instance in a store, she just feels very comfortable about doing that.
In some cases she doesn’t feel like she belongs there; she’s not worthy.
Another example is she was getting rewards at school, and she didn’t think she was worthy of getting them.
She didn’t want to get up in front of people.
So that’s kind of what I think of.
In essence, I guess it’s another disorder, and I guess that’s how I look at it.
Interviewer: Could you tell me about what you know about CBT?
In your own words, explain what CBT is, that’s cognitive behavioral therapy.
Interviewee: Well behavioral therapy… cognitive thinking about your behavior.
So I would assume we’re talking about how we’re addressing people who have behavioral issues thinking.
Which for me goes back to my daughter’s anxiety.
Is that essentially what you’re looking for?
Interviewer: So I can’t answer the questions, it’s more so getting your complete perspective about what you know about CBT and therapy.
Interviewee: Outside of just my experience here, I haven’t done a lot of research into it.
I mean in all honesty, I was probably the one most unaware in my family of what was going on with my daughter.
To me, it’s like what I was seeing was so different than what I was seeing with my other daughter, and really had no idea.
It was more of a daughter- mother communication that was going on initially, then I got included.
So it can be, I think, very difficult to assess, and I see my daughter probably more than my wife does because I’m a stay at home dad, basically feeding and getting them off from school, and everything else, so yeah, pretty much…
Interviewer: No, that’s good to know.
When you first learned about the kind of therapy that we do here, do you remember what questions you had?
What did you know about CBT prior to the sessions here?
Interviewee: I really didn’t know a lot about, again, the cognitive CBD… as far as what you did hear, my wife is a physician.
I never had any fear about bringing my daughter here, although I will say that not really knowing initially what we were talking about, I think there is this stigma of, “Okay your daughter is going to go to therapy.”
And right away, you think psychiatry, and you think drugs and you think WACKY PEOPLE.
And you’re like, I grew up in a situation where I had a couple brothers who had comparable type issues to what my daughter’s experiencing, never thought a thing about it, and we basically just toughed right through it.
You know, unless I think the child is speaking out or you have an adult who’s really perceptive to these kinds of things; my wife’s a physician, she may have noticed some things, but again it was my daughter who was willing to open up, whereas with a boy, they may not perceive that.
Interviewer: So what kind of questions did you have then when you were coming in, if you could remember?
Interviewee: I really did not ask a lot of questions, and I was the one that brought her here.
Matter of fact, out of the, I don’t know how many times we’ve been here, 10, 15, 20 times, my wife has only been here one time.
Again, I wasn’t too worried about the therapy because I saw it strictly as being a sitting down and talking, and after the very first session I kind of got an idea of what was going to be transpiring in terms of okay, everything we’re trying to do is repetitive type situations with her anxiety disorder.
If we’re doing this over and over then you get more used to it then you don’t get the anxiety of doing it, and you start to realize… of course she got taught techniques in dealing with anxiety, that’s it’s not as big an issue that you’re making it up to be internally.
Interviewer: How much did you know about CBT from movies, the TV, the internet, or other people?
Did any or all of it match your experiences?
Interviewee: Well I will say this, I don’t think anyone phrases what I have seen as CBT.
I don’t hear them talking about it on TV.
When you watch a movie, you don’t hear them talking about CBT.
In other words, it is a phrase that people are not, I believe, familiar with.
And as a result, you say CBD it sounds like a lot of other, you know, abbreviations.
I don’t know if saying CBD is another way of saying therapy, maybe you just say therapy, or you know, coming up with a gentler, easier, kinder way to make people feel comfortable about what the subject matter is.
Because to me, CBT didn’t mean anything
Interviewer: Thinking about your experience, were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who was about to start CBT?
Interviewee: I’m saying CBD not CBT.
Interviewer: CBT: cognitive behavioral therapy.
I know we’ve said it several times.
Interviewee: I was also in a medical background for a while.
CBD meant something else different.
Interviewer: Okay, okay.
Interviewee: I’m sorry, say the question again.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who was about to start cognitive behavior therapy?
Interviewee: I would say not to fear it, not to be stressed out about it.
Having seen what I have seen here, and when I say that I mean just seeing some of the people that have come in, some of them, which go to my daughter’s school, you have no idea that “Wow, she’s here too” or “He’s here, I had no idea.”
It’s something that a lot of people, I guess the ones who have been willing to talk about it or have had someone who has perceived intentionally that you could get help like this, that it’s available; you shouldn’t be stigmatized about it, you shouldn’t worry about it.
It’s not a big deal.
You know, if people only realized you probably would find about a third of the country is in some kind of therapy or is taking some kind of a drug, unfortunately, to assist them with depression or something like that.
I have been surprised on a number of occasions with former friends
and to find that half of them were on antidepressants in their 30s or 40s you know.
Interviewer: Think of three things that describe you felt about CBT when you first heard about it.
What would those words be?
Interviewee: Words about how I felt about CBT…
Interviewer: So think about three words that described how you felt, when you first heard about it, and what would those words be?
Interviewee: Helpful… non-threatening…common.
Interviewer: Okay, helpful, non-threatening, and common.
If you were to add a picture to each of those words, what would it be?
Interviewee: Add a picture to each of these words… helping a kid with like, homework.
That’s what we’re talking about.
Non- threatening, talking to a police officer.
Interviewer: who’s talking to a police officer?
Interviewee: Anybody.
Interviewer.
Anybody.
Okay.
Interviewee: Kids today are afraid of police officers in many cases… what was my last suggestion?
Interviewer: Your last one was common.
Interviewee: Common, just looking at a crowd of people and probably a third or half of the people either could use therapy or are in therapy in some way, shape, or form.
Interviewer: So the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety.
If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Interviewee: Not noticing either the symptoms, case in point, or not being informed, which I guess is
of this session, trying to find a way to inform people of what people have, and that there are solutions to deal with, and they are readily available if you have insurance or maybe even if you don’t.
Interviewer: Right.
What is important for other patients to know based off what you said earlier about…
Interviewee: That the three descriptive things is essentially that this is accessible and it is there to help you, and it will help you if you’re dealing with anxiety.
It can be healed.
You can be healed.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: Any specific skills…
Interviewer: Or areas… what about thoughts, feelings, and actions.
Do you feel that CBT targets those areas?
Interviewee: Well absolutely, I mean those are all anxiety base type
Yes.
Yes it does affect all of those in the person’s life, and so yeah you need to find a solution
therapy certainly addresses that.
Interviewer: Are there any questions you wish you had asked before you started the CBT in the context of the previous question.
Interviewee: I think in most people’s case when it comes to therapy, you kind of like to have an idea how long something will take.
That was the one thing I never thought about asking because you want to follow it through as much as you’re able to make sure your kid, or daughter, or whoever gets the treatment that they need.
So there was never really any kind of a period that was set down.
I mean unlike in other therapy sessions, like you go to a chiropractor and your insurance company may allow you to do 25, 30 visits.
I have no idea what we’re able to get, you know, if there’s a limit on that.
I would like to think I’ve got a pretty good insurance package with my wife [UNDERSCORE] [LOCATION], but that was one thing I think some parents may like to know.
You don’t know what this is going to cost, how long it’s going to take.
Then again, obviously it depends on the subject.
Whether or not the therapy is working on the person.
Interviewer: Are there any other questions that you would want to know before we started the CBT?
Interviewee: It may be helpful to kind of give people an idea of what is the therapy, because that was never really explained.
It was like we go, we sit down in a room, we start asking questions, “who are you?
What do you do?
What’s going on with you?” and you never really find out “here’s how we’re going to treat you.”
Now maybe that’s something that just happens between the parent and the therapist, so there was never really any discussion of that.
Ultimately we did get to “okay there’s going to be some things that we will go over and over, then here’s some tricks to learn how to trick yourself basically into believing nothing’s really wrong.”
So that might have been very useful.
Interviewer: What was your involvement in CBT?
What would be useful for other parents to know if it’s not different from what you’ve already shared?
Interviewee: My involvement in CBT primarily was ensuring that to a certain extent, and this was minimized, really, in my case, that I tried to get my daughter to do certain activities so that we could have this repetitive testing, if you will, going on.
Because you just can’t walk into the session and expect your therapist to give a 45 minute to an hour “here’s what’s going to happen,” the kid leaves and the kid doesn’t do anything.
If you can’t find a way to get your child to actually continue to challenge themselves, then they’re really not going to improve all that much.
So, you’ve really got to, with the approval of the therapist, find a way to challenge your kid, push them on multiple occasions.
We didn’t do it a lot, we could’ve pushed a lot more, but I was told, “You don’t want to do it too much, within limits.”
I would bring up ideas.
I would get an okay, “yeah that sounds like a good idea, do that.”
Interviewer: Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: I did not at all.
I mean in all honesty I did not see coming here as being in any way, shape, or form threatening, although as I mentioned before, any time you talk about therapy, I could see from the perspective
in the future, that in the case of a parent, yeah there’s a little bit of stigma.
“Why is my kid having to go to therapy?
What did I do wrong?” That kind of a situation going on in my head.
And we, my wife and I, did have some discussions on that.
As it turns out, my mother in law is also a therapist in this area, so we got her feedback on some things.
I don’t always agree with her.
Interviewer: So as far as scientific research, given to patients or parents, do you think it’s something we should talk about in the videos?
Interviewee: I honestly think that’s just going to, again, now I’m sure there are a lot more severe cases than what my daughter has, so depending on the severity of the situation, I think you may find a parent a lot more involved or concerned about what’s going on.
In that particular situation, yeah, they may need a lot more support in terms of what is happening with their child.
As I said before, in my particular situation, I didn’t deem my daughter’s issue to be that severe, although, you know, I don’t know how it compares to some other people, but there were some moments, according to my daughter, where she was freaking out inside, so she wasn’t able to do certain things or didn’t want to go do certain things, and I guess that could metastasize into something else later in life.
So, level of seriousness, yeah, it’s hard to gage, but I didn’t need that, I didn’t feel that I needed to have that kind of research.
So like I said, I didn’t go look it up.
My wife being a physician, you, know, we basically just said, “Hey this is available to us.
The kid’s complaining of a problem, let’s go check this out.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Did you know about somebody else’s experience with CBT, if so, was it positive or negative?
Interviewee: I did not... nobody that I know was I ever told went into any kind of therapies.
I mentioned before I had friends… we moved to Florida 3 years ago, and come to find out a number of our close friends, half of them, are on antidepressants or undergoing therapy.
I had no clue.
It’s one of these things that ultimately gets around to some of the husbands who talk.
So no, I really had no experience at all with CBT.
Interviewer: So as we said, this interview is all about developing the new videos and also getting feedback on that as well.
So first we need to decide who would be in the video, before I show you this actually, like who would be in the video, what characters do you think it should  [UNDERSCORE]?
Interviewee: Well who are you going to be showing the videos to?
Interviewer: Patients, children, parents.
Interviewee: So it’s the first time type.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Also even adults, adults who are actually patients themselves.
So with that in mind, who do you think, who do we need to decide will be in the videos as far as characters?
What characters should we include?
Interviewee: Well, I mean, if they’re going to be doing this with kids, if you’re going to be showing this to adolescents, I would want obviously adolescents talking about it.
Girls to girls, boys to boys, type of thing.
As I mentioned to you, I’ve seen a number of kids from my daughter’s school here, and that kind of surprised me.
There’s been a couple of incidents where I’ve found out that other kids
even after we started here, and I don’t know if my wife talked to them or not, the parents of the other kids, but in terms of… I was getting off track there for a second… but yeah, I’d stick to basically if you’ve got kids, then show other kids, and if the parents of the kid, then you need to possibly have a video that speaks to the parent of that child as well, or you know the parent’s obviously going to be savvy enough to sit down and understand their kid watching another kid and what’s going on.
Interviewer: So with that being said, just more follow up on that question, should there be any non- human characters, such as animals, superheroes?
Interviewee: Uh… it’s interesting you say superheroes.
My brother- in- law is a big super hero guy here in town.
He supplies Shands with the bat- mobile, all that kind of stuff… that really would be, in my opinion, dependent on the kid.
Depending on the age of the kid and their interest level, you may have kids that are just like my brother in law, who are big time into the superhero genre: Marvel, DC comics and all that kind of stuff, and you can get kids that are really into that world, because they’ve decided to become, I hate to say reclusive, but inward, looking inward constantly, and not really looking out.
Introvert, is what I was looking for.
So they start looking at nonstop computer games, videos online, things like that becomes a world that they are familiar with.
So I would say on a limited basis, you may be able to, depends on your budget!
How many videos can you put out?
Interviewer: What about children?
Should we include a boy or girl?
Both?
Or parents, friends, doctors in the videos?
Interviewee: Well, I mean, you’re trying to make the parent feel comfortable in most cases, because the kid’s not going to have a choice, they’re going to be coming, so I think you could do both.
Still the video speaks to the kid with the parent seeing it, but then again I think you also should probably have something talk to the parent in general about what to expect.
It’s something that you should do maybe before they get here.
Are you talking about having the video… well you don’t want to answer my questions, so… ha-ha... maybe you have an introductory set of videos that address this prior to them coming, so they do have an idea about cognitive behavioral therapy.
Interviewer: So now that we’ve talked about who would be in the video, what about deciding where the video would take place?
In the context of the video, would it be a home setting, school setting, doctor’s office, or somewhere outside like a park?
Interviewee: I would say that would depends on, and you guys would have more figures on this than I would, but I could definitely see one of them happening in a school.
Let’s say out of a hundred people, 45% of the time, 50% of the time, things are school related, like my kid, they spend a lot of time in school that maybe you have one that shows the kid on school answering questions and showing, “Yeah, it paid to answer a question in the classroom,” or I’m looking over here at the other kid and thinking what she’s thinking about me.
In that particular situation, sure, having a school video may not be a bad idea.
Certainly something in the home, eh, that puts adults typically at ease, but where are most of these anxiety situations transpiring?
Maybe that’s kind of the environment you want to have a video like that because that’s people are going to associate with their situation.
Interviewer: Sounds good.
Now that we’ve talked about both of those, the last thing is what should we decide that they talk about in the video?
We’ve already started talking about this with the other questions, but what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer within the video?
Should they find out a CBT explanation about how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life?
Interviewee: I think you can talk about that, but you have the person talking about the kind of experiences they have.
Because some people may not even… again, I didn’t even really know, and I would dare say there’s a lot of kids… and you hate to think there’s that many people out there who have issues.
Again, I think there’s a stigma attached and without question, I know there is because I know a couple other docs, my daughter has told me that their kids… you know, “this kid had a problem” and mother says “maybe you should stay away from that person if they’re being depressed,” or you know there’s a stigma attached with this.
We’re seeing a therapist.
Honestly, I’m not sure if we’re seeing a PhD OR Master’s level therapist or not psychiatrists… correct?
They’re not psychiatrists… I don’t know... maybe they are, I never looked at their diploma.
So I think there is somewhat of a stigma attached with this to a lot of people.
That’s what you’re going to have to breakthrough; in that it’s not that difficult, it’s not that uncommon.
You don’t need to be scared of it.
People don’t like to say, “Oh yeah I’m in therapy,” or my daughter’s mentioned that, because the first thing that some of the kids think is, “Ooh, stay away from her, she’s got a problem.”
Interviewer: So is that something you’d want to be discussed in the videos?
Interviewee: I think you do need to talk about that.
There’s some potential risk there, so you need to basically limit who you’re going to talk to because stuff gets around.
I was even told, “don’t tell the rest of the family.
We don’t want them thinking negatively of what’s going on.”
Then again to me, it was like, “What are we talking about here?” This doesn’t seem like that big of a deal, but yet it is.
If you’re that person that’s in therapy you’re thinking about what everyone else is thinking about your family.
You go on a trip, you see the other half of the family, and its like, “what’s going on with you?
I heard you’re in therapy.”
Negative connotations just spread.
People can say things.
They can be very hurtful, so there needs to be some thought given to that.
Interviewer: Should they ask about how it has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: I would say so.
Having examples of kids who could, again in an educational setting, stand up and basically say, “Here’s the problems that I had.
I was afraid of doing this.
I couldn’t do this, I couldn’t do that, and fortunately I talked to my mother about it… blah blah blah blah… this is what happened, and I got into this program, and it helped me to deal with it.
I still have it to a certain extent, but I know how to deal with it, and now I can go around doing A, B, C, D, and E, and I’m okay.
My life has expanded greatly.”
I think you want to show that kind of positive type situation.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Should they ask about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Ask about how exposures work… okay since you can’t answer a question….
Interviewer: Should they ask about the activities or the homework’s that is usually given and the need to do it outside?
Should they ask about that?
Interviewee: Ask the therapist?
Yes…
Interviewer: No, should the characters in the videos discuss how exposures work so… basically just how the activities that you’re asking typically engage in CBT… should they ask that?
Interviewee: I think yes, absolutely.
Again, I mentioned it earlier that yes, I would kind of want to know, “how does therapy work?
What is it you’re going to be doing?
Are we just sitting down and talking across the couch like a psychiatrist?
Or are we doing interactive type things or active type things with other people as a way to deal with the anxiety?” So yeah, I would definitely try to get as much information out there as possible because you’re going to put people at ease if they know something… hopefully.
Interviewer: Alright and should the characters in the video ask about what parents can and can’t do to help?
Interviewee: I would say yes, but again, this kind of depends on are you just going to make one video that’s going to address, like I was talking about, you can have a video that addresses a kid a parent can obviously watch that, but you could also have a video that maybe is inclusive to the parents prior to them coming here that does tell them what they should be expected, or what they should be expecting to see, and what they should be expecting to do to help their kid.
Yeah, I don’t see a problem doing that, but again, that would be having a therapist obviously talking to the parents, “Mom, dad, here’s what to expect.
Here’s what’s going to happen.
This is what we need you to do to really help this therapy take hold and work.”
Interviewer: Sounds good.
So now we’ve talked about who will be in the video, where they will talk, what they will talk about.
Let’s talk about how the video would look like, and that’s when I bring these into play.
But before I do that, let me ask you, are there any cartoons or animated videos or movies that you like, that catches your interest… your favorite ones to watch?
Interviewee: Animated… you did say animated…
Interviewer: Yeah, cartoons or animated movies.
Interviewee: I haven’t watched a cartoon in years.
Okay, “How to Train My Dragon.”
Interviewer: Okay, is that a movie?
Interviewee: Yeah there’s 3 or 4 now, and I don’t believe I’ve actually seen them.
I haven’t seen the last one.
The characters I think appeal to a certain age group… more of a younger set than high school.
I don’t think you’re really seeing high school kids into animation.
I think they’re more into the Marvel, DC Comics type stuff.
But yeah, the reason I bring up that particular movie is because you’ve got a character in there who has, who’s missing a leg who was a kid who… he’s the kid in the village who’s the son of the chief of the village and he’s a total wimp.
I mean he looks like the wimpy kid, and this is a Viking village, okay.
So the dad is this huge character, and he’s this peg legged little nobody, and he ends up getting to be friends with a dragon, learns how to fly the dragon, and so on.
So in a way, there’s some issues in this movie that can be looked at as being like anxiety.
So you may be able to have some relations there, but it’s a movie/ series that’s done pretty well, I think.
So with a younger set, in terms of kids, yeah they may find having characters like that talking about certain things they would understand.
But again, with high school kids?
If you talk to high school kids… I’ll tell you right now, my kids spend more time looking on YouTube looking at stuff and half the time I’m like, “What are you guys looking at?” It’s the weirdest crap… I mean you’re listening to a guy talk about some game and you’re just sitting there listening to him talk about a game.
How to do this, how to do that.
I don’t know if you know.
I don’t get it at all.
Interviewer: I’ve heard of those…So here’s some examples.
I’ll show you some styles that we want to get your feedback from.
You can look through these, and basically there’s a line art style for videos, a  [UNDERSCORE] art style, there’s a comic book blended with live- action type style.
So take a look at them really quick, and when you’re done let me know which styles are most appealing to you, which ones you like the most and why.
Interviewee: Ohhh… so much of this is age dependent.
I mean option 2- definitely the younger kids.
Option 3 may appeal more to the younger high school set, probably some late term middle schoolers.
Interviewer: So you said option 2 for younger kids?
Interviewee:
….yeah.
The images… at least the images based here, cartoon characters, I would say yeah you’re appealing to elementary school.
Interviewer: And what did you say about option 3?
Interviewee: I can see definitely more high school and maybe like eighth grade.
The maturity level of kids nowadays is, it’s all over the place.
It’s amazing how mature they are for their age.
I mean option 1 I think would appeal more to the adult.
Yeah.
Actually, I think option 1 has been used quite a lot in doing like online fat- burner stuff and things like that.
Herbal medicine type things, you see it.
Interviewer: If you had to choose one for your specific situation, with your daughter and your experiences that you would want to see, which one, if you only had to choose one, would it have to be?
Interviewee: In my daughter’s case, 14 years old... I actually think she’d go a lot with line art, option 1.
Because she’s going into 9th grade I just, in her particular situation, I think, just based on what I’ve seen her working at, she would probably… she’s intelligent enough, mature enough, to derive information from a video like that, as opposed to going to a comic book type route/ cartoon situation.
So actually, in a lot of high schools, you probably would get, thinking about it a little more, option 1- adults and young adults.
Interviewer: Okay.
Sounds good.
What do you think the take home message for the videos should be?
Interviewee: There’s 3 things I gave you before.
What did I say?
I forgot.
Interviewer: Non- threatening.
Common.
And there was another one.
Helpful.
There you go.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Helpful.
Non- threatening.
Common.
In essence, everyone has anxiety.
Therapy is not threatening.
It’s helpful.
That’s not too bad.
I like all three of those.
Interviewer: So going back to that same question you think that same answer applies?
Interviewee: Yeah!
In fact, you can say I said that.
Interviewer: Okay. Alright.
Is there anything I missed?
Anything important that I haven’t asked about that you feel I need to know?
Interviewee: No, but I would say, and I mentioned this to the part there I think one time, that it occurs to me that there are a lot of people out there who have these kind of issues.
As I said, most families may not even give it a second thought and just gloss right over it, that’s the way I was, you know.
Finding a way to get the word out, to me, would seem to be critical in your guys’ situation, finding a way, in essence, to market it.
That probably… I don’t know… my kids go to a private school so I would treat things a little differently.
But I would say, you know, it’s a kind of thing at the beginning of school you’d like to have somebody get up who’s a therapist and say, “Look guys, we want you to enjoy school, but if you’re having these kind of things…” find a way to communicate it to people to where they’re not worried about coming to a counselor.
And I know all schools now a days have got different guidance counselors and things like that, or are supposed to be perceptive and picking up on all this stuff.
The reality is, they’re still going to be relying on ultimately on the kid coming to them when you’ve got hundreds, in some cases, thousands of kids in some of these schools.
So I don’t know if there was a way to show a video at the beginning of the year, or finding a way to get people to talk about this kind of stuff.
And I know to a certain extent, they do where my kids go to school.
They have small group type sessions, and they meet once a week, and they go over, “How’s everyone doing?
What are the problems?” But again, there’s still a stigma attached to it.
Somehow you’ve got to get over this stigma, which is why it’s finding a way to communicate, “Look, everybody’s got issues.
It’s common.”
In today’s world… maybe 30, 40, 50 years ago, we just sucked it up and dealt with it.
Any many of us may have problems today that we don’t know about, but finding a way to eliminate that kind of thing and that there is help available for something like this.
Yeah I think that if you can… again, CBT, I mean that makes it sound like a bad drug or some way of communicating that this isn’t really uh… it’s a big deal, yes, but it’s not a big deal to get help for it.
It could be the smallest things, just like I said, you’re afraid to raise your hand in class, that’s a real wimpy one, but you’re worried about what other people think about you.
Gosh, look at all the stuff we’ve got with online issues with Facebook and everything else.
You can see what people are blurring out.
You can tell most people got issues.
Sorry if you’re on Facebook.
So yeah, to me, when they first approached me about this, even when we were first starting our therapy, the one thing I thought about was, “Geez.
There are probably so many people out there, especially younger generations, who need help who don’t really know they need help, or if they did know they need help, their parents would just be like, “What are you talking about?
There’s nothing wrong with you.
I see you every day.
You look fine.
It’s the way you’ve always been.”
Not knowing that some of their behavior has impacted their ability to do things in school- it’s had an impact on their life.
So yeah… finding a way to deal with that stigma… finding a way to rephrase it, repackage it, show people that it’s common, and that there are ways to deal with it, and that they’re available.
To me, that’s a big, big deal finding, helping people.
The videos are great.
You may even have, if you can create a video, maybe it could even be something that you could put into a high school and watch… actually, even younger than that.
Middle school I guess… I mean they’re smart kids in middle school now.
Boy, I’m telling you, really smart.
So yeah, that would be a good idea, to get that information out there.
Interviewer: Okay. That’s good to know.
Well, if there’s nothing else, thank you so much for your time and your feedback and for taking the time out to do this interview with us.
It’s really appreciated.
Interviewee: Thank you!