Interviewer: Ok, thank you so much for meeting with us today.
I’m working with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavior therapy and the kind of therapy your daughter has been doing, and for this project we want to develop a short educational video that would describe this type of therapy and give a little more insight to patients and family to what they can expect from cognitive behavior therapy.
Also, cognitive behavior therapy is pretty long so throughout I’m just going to shorten it to CBT.
So to start can you tell me what comes to mind when you think of CBT.
Interviewee: A therapist or psychologist talking with the adolescent about, or even an adult, about ways to handle different stressors um so… um it’s something that helps to reframe how a child sees or experiences what they think is a problem.
Interviewer: Yeah, definitely so helping them handle certain stressors and kind of reframing their cognition and could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words.
What would you explain what it is?
Interviewee: Can you restate the question.
Interviewer: Yes, so in your own words if you had to provide a definition of what CBT is, what would you say that it is?
I know kind of what you mentioned is what comes to mind to you is kind of a good definition.
You know kind of summarize that.
Interviewee: Narrow it down.
Cognitive behavior therapy would be… not supposed to say the same word in the definition.
Therapy or meeting one-on-one with a CBT trained specialist or psychologist with a patient um and to try to change behavior by thinking of things in a different way.
Interviewer: Yeah, ok awesome!
And when you first learned about this type of therapy that we do here, do you remember if you had any questions or if there was something specific you wanted to know about CBT?
Interviewee: Well, I also have gone through considerable CBT therapy so when it came time for my daughter to um go through it as well I didn’t hesitate to put her in it because I knew it was something that worked.
Interviewer: Yeah so from personal experience you didn’t really have any questions.
You kind of knew what to expect.
Interviewee: Right.
Well for… I didn’t know what to expect for her specifically.
So it’s been interesting to watch the changes happen.
Interviewer: Yeah, and how much did you know about CBT from movies, the media, TV, other people, and if so did this match yours or your child’s experience?
Interviewee: So would this involve mindfulness as well or...?
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: Ok.
I mean I can think of a Star Trek movie that indicated being in the moment and how I can relate that to slowing down time and getting things to work differently or better.
Say the question one more time.
Interviewer: Yeah um so how much did you learn or hear about CBT from movies, TV, internet, media, any of those outside sources?
Interviewee: Um there… I’m a Interviewer so there are a couple of Interviewer songs that indicate breathing techniques you know slow down, appreciate where you are, and take a breath, or take a deep breath and hold on.
So songs definitely, movies a couple of movies specifically that Start Trek one I don’t remember the name of it.
It was with Jean Picard.
Um TV, I don’t watch TV much so I cants say much to that um and most people do not talk about therapy so I can’t say that it was anything from what someone said.
Interviewer: Um so what was described in the Star Trek movie and some of the songs you heard?
Do those thing being described match yours and your daughter’s experiences with CBT?
Interviewee: Part of it yeah.
Interviewer: And thinking about yours and your child’s experience was there anything about CBT that was confusing?
Interviewee: About the… I didn’t know how… didn’t know the method um and they didn’t tell me.
I mean they told me it was a CBT based therapy, but I had go find out what CBT was because they weren’t going to tell me how they were going to work with me or my daughter so.
Kind of had to find out along the way.
Interviewer: mmh yeah so really like the method, the process was what was confusing.
Interviewee: I do have to say that learning the breathing techniques at first, or actually for a while and for some people, I know it was very strange so I’ve been through DBT as well and um some people I remember just seemed to think that it was just more Buddhist type of an activity and I know I also sort of thought that as well because some of the… if you say the word meditation if you are talking to kids from strong Interviewer background, people who do still go to church although it seems like we are dwindling group um, it’s a little put offish in way.
You have to make yourself overcome the way it sounds to accept the way it works.
Interviewer: Right, ok awesome and what would you want to tell someone who is about start CBT?
Interviewee: Give it time to work.
If it feels weird the first time in the first session its ok.
It’s not just talk therapy.
There is a purpose for it.
There is a goal in mind.
You are not just going to be stuck in talk therapy forever so give it three to five sessions before you make a strong opinion about what it is and how it is affecting your child’s behavior.
Interviewer: So being patient and knowing that it truly is a goal-oriented type practice.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Ok awesome and if you could think of three words to describe CBT when you first learned about it, what would those be?
Interviewee: I’m thinking.
Interviewer: Take your time
Interviewee: Calmness, reframing… all I can think about are sentences um… I can’t think of another word.
I can think of mindfulness… being in the moment.
I don’t know how to say that in one word.
Interviewer: That’s ok because that’s three words.
Yeah that works.
So for each of those words if you had to add a picture to them calmness, reframing, mindfulness, or being in the moment what would they look like?
Interviewee: I would think that would differ for each person.
For me it would be a safe place somewhere where didn’t feel threatened.
For me it’s beside like the side of a small river where there is water coming down or you can hear the trickling of water and um just having a nice temperature and a little bit of sun in your face.
Just peacefulness and just the lack of threat.
Interviewer: And what about for reframing.
What would that look like?
Interviewee: So reframing would be like I have a memory of an event that happened and I think of it almost has my… it’s complicated but I. Um so reframing would be me having my opinion about based on limited information at the time when I was a child and having the therapist or the psychologist ask me what would have happened if my mom had taken me somewhere else..
Um...
What would have happened if there… what other outcome could have occurred?
Interviewer: So kind of like presenting a hypothetical.
Interviewee: Yeah yeah and it makes you go back.
So I relive these things every time I talk about them unfortunately.
So um there was this time in sixth grade where my mom who is schizophrenic and bipolar.
My parents got divorced in third grade so my mom... so I was living alone with my mom and my brother and sister lived with my dad.
So the situation was my mom wanted to know what I thought about moving to Canada.
We were living in Colorado and it scared me enough somehow that I contacted my brother and sister who were living with my dad and within that week custody changed from me being with my mom to me being with my dad.
So I felt guilty for so many years for most of my life that I left mom when I promised her that I wouldn’t.
So in cognitive behavior therapy the question posed to me was what would have happened if you had stayed with your mom?
So I had to think.
Well we could have ended up homeless.
We could have… oh and so a result of me leaving also was that she got hospitalized.
So in the scheme of things it had a good outcome, although for the longest time I felt bad.
It made me reconsider so that I didn’t need to feel the guilt and the shame um that I had and that it was ok the way it turned out and um…
Interviewer: Yeah, so would you say maybe a picture that could be associated with the reframing would be someone sitting with a therapist or someone  [UNDERSCORE] showing support or
Interviewee: Yes, showing support um helping them to realize that there is more than one choice.
Interviewer: Yeah ok awesome.
So the goal of CBT many times is to reduce anxiety, so if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in one’s life what would you say it looks like?
Interviewee: Um having lived with it all of my life it is a little hard to say but anxiety would be someone talking to fast or doing too many things and not necessarily doing them well or not finishing them.
Anxiety is that knot in your stomach or in your chest that makes you feel like your heart is going to explode.
It’s your mind racing with thoughts so fast that you can’t calm down.
I had that just this morning so.
Um and you just have to stop what you’re doing, realize that you are out of control.
Sort of somehow get yourself distracted or change what you are doing to something that is healthier and get out of that mind frame.
Interviewer: Yeah and um what’s important for other patients to know?
Interviewee: About
Interviewer: About
Interviewee: anxiety
Interviewer: how anxiety can become a problem in someone’s life or um what’s important to know just for someone who is experiencing those things?
Interviewee: Its ok for you to get help.
You don’t have to live with the fear.
That fear that’s stalking or inside of you that feels so strong that’s going to overwhelm you every single day, you don’t have to live like that.
You don’t have to feel that and it’s not bad and it’s not wrong to ask for help to to find that help or ask a trusted adult to help you find that adult that assistance.
Interviewer: Awesome and so could you tell me any skills or specific areas that CBT targets.
I know we talked about anxiety, but is there anything else that comes to mind.
Interviewee: Depression.
I know um post-traumatic stress disorder is also kind of part of the anxiety but that helps as well.
I don’t know the answer whether or not CBT can solve problems in people who are genetically predisposed which my kids are and I am due to my mom’s history.
So there’s probably a psychiatric medicine type component that may need to be included and again there is no shame in that.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and so would you say that it targets thoughts feelings and actions.
Interviewee: Yes
Interviewer: And are there any questions you wished you would have asked before you started CBT or your daughter?
Interviewee: No I before... I was going through CBT before either of my kids started and I kind of landed to it not really knowing what it was and it’s probably what has saved my life.
I grew up feeling suicidal the whole way through even as an adult.
Even though I never actually did anything, I never wanted to be alive.
CBT has helped me find more joy in everyday life and even though I still struggle and will probably continue struggling um I know I can choose not to let it overwhelm me.
I have been given some tools to deal with the pain, the frustration, the anxiety, all of the things that are wound up in anxiety and depression.
Interviewer: So would you say before starting it was really you… your question is what is this because you were going into not really knowing what to expect.
Interviewee: I interviewed several therapists and counselors beforehand and at the time I was faculty at [LOCATION].
So I didn’t want someone who was affiliated with [LOCATION] at first because I thought that it would be too humiliating and um I’ve had bad experiences with psychologists as a child.
Um tried some family therapy and it was… it was too much anger, too much pain, and it didn’t do any good.
I was afraid of the stigma of going to see someone for your mental health, not mental health, but for your emotional wellbeing.
So really there was a women who incense burning in her room and she had Buddhist practically written everywhere and it was a big turn off and um you know the rooms here are comfortable.
They are not beautifully decorated you know, but they’ve got nice pictures you know.
You know that you are in a safe place and a safe... the people I’ve met here are patient and thoughtful, positive, and um just helpful so.
Interviewer: And what is your involvement in your child’s overall CBT therapy?
Interviewee: So her counselor or her psychologist lately like for the last several visits has invited me into the sessions maybe for 10-15 minutes to let her know what I think should be covered because sometimes my daughter forgets mention certain things or just flat out doesn’t want to talk about it.
I don’t know.
So she tries to get my perspective first and then I leave and go back to the waiting area and then they can discuss things.
Interviewer: Awesome and what would be useful for other parents to know that maybe have a child that is about to go into CBT or is in CBT?
Interviewee: Be patient.
Love your child no matter what.
Sometimes we are the cause of some of their problems and we don’t realize it and hopefully the therapist or the counselor would let us know somehow.
Although there have been certain times where I would say something or do something I meant it in a way to keep my child safe or I’m trying to protect her from something, but she doesn’t have that perspective.
She feels like she is being restricted or um that I’m being mean to her and so her counselor knew after talking with me individually sometimes with my daughter in the therapy and me out in a separate room quickly, I would let her know what my perspective was and she knew I wasn’t trying to be a jerk.
I was trying to do the right thing for my child.
So that helped her be able to help my daughter realize that I was coming from a place of concern and she was possibly you know you got let the child feel the way they are going to feel, but help them realize that the parent has a different view of things and has different experiences and is trying to be helpful.
It opens up communication between the parent and the child.
Interviewer: Yeah. So would you say it would be useful for parents to know to have open communication between the child and the therapist?
To be patient and stuff like that.
Interviewee: And if they have concerns that the therapist needs to know about to make sure that they are not afraid to talk to the therapist or you know to just you know touch them on the shoulder or something and say can I talk to for just a minute.
Tell me if I’m taking this the wrong way and it’s helpful for both the child and the parent.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely.
And have you read or heard any scientific research that has mentions CBT, and if so or if not do you think this something useful for us to mention in our videos?
Interviewee: Research on CBT.
I don’t think I have which is unusual for me actually.
Um would it be useful?
It is always useful to back up what you say with research.
You don’t necessarily need to say Millers, Smith, and Johnson at al. 1996 and their landmark study.
You don’t have to cite it that way but in literature maybe suggest sources, reputable websites, and reputable sources of information whether it’s printed or electronic that parents and/or kids can look at.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: That’s always useful.
Always whatever you do, I’m a scientist, you have to back up your claims otherwise its one person’s opinion versus another.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and did you know about anybody else’s experiences of CBT any time in your life?
Interviewee: No
Interviewer: No, ok
Interviewee: I only… I landed into CBT myself actually because I voluntarily went to Vista for three days.
I needed a time out because I was really going downhill fast so and um I actually found that I could help other people, other women who were struggling with suicidal thoughts.
I didn’t know DBT, but I had some encouraging books that they could look at and things that were able to enhance sort of their view of themselves.
Interviewer psychology stuff so.
Interviewer: Yeah, so as I mentioned before we want to develop these video about CBT so we are kind of going to move on talking a little bit more detail about those.
So, thinking about the video, who would be in the video in your perspective?
What characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: What ages groups are you targeting?
Interviewer: So as of right now we are trying to make the video appeal to both the patients and their family so pretty much all age groups, but um yeah.
Interviewee: And is it just one video?
Interviewer: As of right now.
Interviewee: Um and at what point where would you being showing it?
Interviewer: So Ideally we would like… I mean it would be something that would be shown to patients and families right before they would start treatment to kind of better understand what they are going to be doing.
Interviewee: So not like a public service announcement type of thing.
Interviewer: Um no more so targeting people who are going into CBT.
Interviewee: Ok so an introduction to CBT.
Um how long will it be?
Interviewer: Um not sure.
Probably not like 20 minutes.
Probably something pretty concise, but enough information so people know what to expect.
Interviewee: So remind me your question.
Interviewer: Who would be in the video?
Interviewee: Oh boy!
Um in a world where everyone needs to be included, um you would have to involve some children maybe with different scenarios of how CBT is done.
I would break it into… do you do CBT on a little kid?
Interviewer: Um yeah
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Yeah I would say yeah.
Interviewee: Because… so my daughter sometimes plays games with my daughter.
My daughter is 13, so I know games can sometimes help a therapist reach a child or you now.
In terms of who would be in it, I would include kids of different ages, different races, male and female.
I know a lot of the psychologists are female, but it would be good to show you know a man working with probably a boy.
I know my daughter doesn’t want to see anyone who is not a female.
So um you know that’s her thing.
Parents could be in a waiting room, but they could also be talking to the therapist.
You don’t want to necessarily show the checking-out procedure of you know paying because that’s not CBT.
That’s policy.
Got to pay for what you are getting.
Interviewer: Ok great!
What about nonhuman characters, animals, superheroes, do you think any of those would be appealing?
Interviewee: Well there are... ok so your mascot almost, sort of.
Interviewer: Well not necessarily.
It could just I mean for the superheroes that would just be another way to represent things.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: But this based on your perspective.
It’s what you think.
If you don’t think that superheroes, animals, nonhumans should be involved  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: I know a lot of times they are effective marketing tools.
Would I put them in?
Probably not, but I’m also not a marketer.
So I know in the real world there are emotional support animals that really could make an appearance.
For the younger kids, it would probably be useful to have something cartooning, not anime though.
That’s a little to strange.
Something that is safe appearing, not something creepy or cringy you know.
You want a teddy bear.
Interviewer: Yeah, so really just the people that are really involved in the process like the kids, the parents, the therapist and stuff like that.
Interviewee: Yeah… I don’t know if you would…teachers don’t usually get involved in?
Interviewer: Sometimes, it depends.
Interviewee: I don’t know if I would include anything outside of nuclear family or grandparents.
It would be the people who would give consent.
It would the people who have legal authority over the child.
Interviewer: Yeah great.
Um so what about where they would talk… what would be a good setting for the video or multiple settings?
Interviewee: Um I’m a realist so you know to set the standard.
Show them a typical room.
Different therapists decorate a little differently.
If there’s… if certain colors are meant to elicit certain feelings or um responses do that.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: I probably would not do one where there’s a two-way mirror involved because that is that would make anybody feel uncomfortable so.
It’s like I’m being watched.
Interviewer: So really just like the therapist office would be the best setting.
Interviewee: Yeah because you don’t want to sugarcoat it.
I mean you want to be realistic about it and it’s not a miracle cure.
A lot of it is the therapist drawing you out or drawing your fears out to touch them without making you feel like you are on the burner.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: So I don’t know.
Interviewer: Good!
And so yeah this is shaping up nicely.
What should be talked about in the videos and should there be specific questions asked and addressed in the videos?
Interviewee: I would ask the counselors or the psychologists that one.
I don’t… I don’t know.
Um… questions again so if it’s a counselor talking with a child, I’m trying to picture it in my head when I close my eyes, so um you know friendly opening questions like “How was your day to day?” you know.
Did you have any so for performance anxiety you know, “How did your test go?” Or “How did your presentation go?” You know ask things that um... are relative to what they are going through.
If they are going to school ask then ask school related questions to sort of be the icebreakers.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: Um if they are working, um…you know if you are talking about the adults being the patients um and not just the parents um… is that part of the scope or is it?
Interviewer: It’s more so the perspective of the child as the patient but the parents are still involved.
Interviewee: Ok… so um you know if they have a lovey animal, you know a little lovey animal or a stuff animal that they bring with them you know, if it’s not too corny you can ask how the lovey is doing or the stuff animal so.
Interviewer: Yeah, and should they ask about how it worked for other kids?
Interviewee: How who should ask?
Interviewer: Like should that a be like a question between maybe characters or should it be in the form of kind of a little snippet of an interview of kids explaining how its worked for them.
Interviewee: I’m not completely sure they know what method is being used on them and I’m not quite sure it’s necessary that they know.
They just need something that works and helps them to uh navigate life better.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Do you think that there should be kids saying those things like its helped them, the feel better, and things of that sort?
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: What about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Um I don’t think my daughter has done that.
I don’t know… I don’t know how to answer that one.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: I guess exposure to me in my situation means that uh they… like my counselor is uh just incredibly good.
If there is a day like I don’t feel like talking, she draws me out easily and she knows how to get me to talk.
So for exposures she has me think of a memory and she has me put my… what’s the word, not my real finger, my um… psychological finger.
I don’t know how to say that.
So that to me the exposure is bringing old moods out into the open.
Interviewer: Yeah and for some other kids the disorder may be putting them in a situation where they must face their fears or something that’s bothering them so do you think that would be beneficial to show in the video?