Interviewer: Ok, so um again thanks for coming to meet with us today.
So basically what we’re doing here is we’re a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists that are working on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy.
It’s a kind of therapy that, you know, you guys have been doing with your therapist or therapists.
But for this project we really want to develop, um, basically a few short educational videos that describe what cognitive behavior therapy is for children and their parents.
Saying “cognitive behavior therapy” is kind of a mouthful, so from this point on I’ll just be saying CBT and that’s what I’m referring to.
Um, kind of, so the first thing we’re wondering is what comes to mind when you guys think of CBT?
Interviewee: Um, for me I would say that CBT is kind of a learning process of how to take some kind of behavior that is not quite acceptable or something that you want to work on and baby steps and step it to a place where you rather prefer it to be to get to an end point.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: I took it as helping you stop a behavior that you have trouble stopping yourself.
Interviewer: Ok, excellent.
Could you tell me what you guys know about CBT, so like, in your own words how would you explain it?
Interviewee: Um, for me CBT is a process of physical and or mental challenges to train yourself brain-wise to get to a place behavioral-wise, so you’re trying in a way to shift your brain to make your brain and your body do correct behavior so that you’re a happier brain person.
Interviewee: I’ve always looked at it as a three step process of your thinking, your feelings, your behavior and you try to make somebody aware of their behavior and their feelings that they had when they had those behaviors, and the thoughts that cause those feelings.
And then you try to get them to change their thoughts so they can change their feelings, then change their behavior.
Interviewer: And um, you know, when you guys first came here and were learning about what kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what questions you had or maybe what you were feeling or thinking at that point about CBT?
Interviewee: Well, I mean, the time table would be one you know, what is the length of time, they think, my daughter would need to go through the therapy.
That was my biggest question.
And I know that with um, when you have the need for CBT.
I that it?
That for some people it’s a lifetime commitment to changing those behaviors and stuff.
But, I wasn’t sure how long the therapy lasts for.
That was one of the biggest questions I had, still don’t know the answer to that.
Interview: Yeah that’s a good question, yeah.
Any other questions that you guys had coming in?
Interviewee: For me, it’s different, I’ve been exposed to CBT since, our daughter is 12, so basically since she was 4.
So I’ve had a long process and experience with dealing with CBT.
Um, in the very beginning I would say mostly it’s like, what do you expect of how long to, you can’t predict changes but how long do you say we do this certain area of CBT before we either increase the difficulty or you say let’s put that on the backburner and tackle this instead.
So to me it’s like a stair system of how well you progress and how much you need to push further to progress further, because to me CBT is a stepping process of challenging yourself to be a little bit pushed to the edge so that you can reprogram to be challenged again, to go further so that you can be, get to the place that you’re trying to get to.
Interviewer: So it sounds like you know.
Sorry
Interviewee: I just wanted to say, you I was trying to recall, you know how I was feeling with it, my daughter’s need for therapy rose, I think, fairly quickly and sense of panic, I think, on our part sort of not understanding how it kicked in for her and this feeling of a little bit of helplessness and um trying to deal with it on our own, which is why we reached out for help obviously, but I had a little bit of a sense of panic, on my part, of wanting to be able to help my daughter and not understanding why it kicked in for her.
Interviewer: Any other questions or anything you wanted to add on to that point?
Interviewee: For me, about CBT itself is that, um my husband and myself practice it as well so for us we didn’t have the quite “what’s going on?” the unfamiliarity with it.
So it was more of a process of, so now we start our child into getting to the step, so for me I had uh big um, I already had my feet in the water of the pool, I knew what it was kind of about, but it is, it can be overwhelming to figure out where your starting place is.
To feel like what’s the thing you need to like put your little finger in first to like, to have a jumping off point.
And sometimes, sometimes you have to pick and choose where you start that point too.
For the difficulty of the person, for the child that’s going through it they may not be able to handle that and we have always done like a fear hierarchy which help you a basis of what the um the things you need to work on.
I think that helped a lot with designing the CBT to then know where your increments are to have to, you can push you enough, this is not too much but it pushes you enough to get to be at a more stable place of um… you know a focused place of that you’ve at a stepping stone point to step off and go now I can breathe for a second and think “where is my next place I gotta jump off and work and hurdle and kind of get over.”
Interviewer: Ok.
Um, so was there anything really quick off that question is there anything that when you came into therapy you really wanted to know about CBT?
It’s sort of a similar question but
Interviewee: Um, I don’t, initially for CBT I guess we wanted to know what, um what kinda the prognosis is, what like does everyone like, you know, succeed and flourish under doing CBT or is it only certain types of personalities or types of challenges you have.
So, we kind of wanted to know, as CBT as a option, it is for everybody kind of thing?
Or is it just like certain people who have certain kind of things have certain challenges, is it just for them.
So that was kind of well maybe a curve that we wanted to know or really unfamiliar to know what type people or does everybody you know like is everybody getting the flu shot or not you know
Interviewer: right exactly
Interviewee: so that was something we thought about in the beginning.
Interviewer: Absolutely
Interviewee:
Interviewer: Ok, How much did you guys know about CBT from things like movies or tv, the internet, or just other people.
Um like how had you heard about it in the media or stuff like that.
Interviewee: Not very much.
I’ve seen more movies or information more about the conditions of people who have like problem and need help but, the focus on like a CBT-type solution I don’t think has been really out there much as far as the movie industry and newspaper articles and such.
I think now it is being more of a go to thing for doctors and for people thinking of it and so it is coming out why you are making the video people are turning to it more than people in the past.
Well this person has this condition, this persona has that condition and what do we do drug wise or therapy wise.
And now it’s like the CBT is getting bigger poster board so people can say “oh wow, how bout that”.
So I think now its getting more of a claim of therapy to do.
Interviewer: ok
Interviewee: It was, I mean for me with it just from an academic side of things, it was close enough to the areas I which I have studied in the past that you know I have bits and pieces of it through academic journals or professional papers and things to that nature, um but um, not anything that as far as um popular media is concerned that I would have gotten, or that is sort of out there that I was familiar with from that area.
Interviewer: Ok, anything from like friends or like other sources like people, word of mouth type sources
Interviewee: I don’t think so as far as for CBT as far as um that as an option.
I haven’t really sat down with mothers or parents and gone like “this is what you need to do for your child” um I have another family member who is just starting to possibly go through that process themselves, so I’m kind of in a way educating them.
I don’t think it’s always out there where people can go “let’s turn to CBT” and I still don’t think it’s like right of the tongue for people to try.
Interviewee: My sisters a schoolteacher and so she certainly provided when this became an issue for un provided a lot of information for us and one of my sons has dyslexia and the person who had worked with him in his elementary, early elementary, we had talked to her and she had guided me toward to trying to see through you all CBT and she sort of explained sort of what the process was gonna be.
It’s another counselor but it’s not the area that she works.
Interviewer: Ok, makes sense.
Um thinking about your experience with CBT, were there any parts of therapy that were confusing to you guys?
Interviewee: Um, I don’t think anything is confusing for CBT, other than it may not always be a clear picture of like how long you may have to go through a certain element of it because you really unless you start that particular thing with the child you don’t know if this will take a day or two weeks, or so that part will always be kind of cloudy because there is no black and white, everybody is different, everybody’s brain works differently, everybody has more challenges in some ways or others, so I think the time frame is really something that can’t really be nailed down.
Interviewer: yeah
Interviewee: With the exception of the time issue, I thought that both the, uh, psychiatrists that we initially saw and then the counselor on the first visit I thought explained quite well what the process is gonna be.
Interviewer: That’s good
Interviewee: As far as my stand point, and I’m not sure for my daughters but
Interviewer: Right, ok.
What do you think you guys would tell someone who is just about to start CBT.
Interviewee: I think I would tell them that a good worthwhile tool that will really aide them in getting a faster result than normal, our children both have CBT and they both have medication, so um I’ve seen medication and the CBT work together work the best, but if I had to choose one or the other I think the CBT by itself alone will get you results because you’re pushing the brain to challenge and overcome that obstacle and make it be okay and then you picture the next one and make it be okay so you’re kind of in a way, in my head, reprogramming your main brain for the rest of your life.
And so you have ups and downs, you’re always gonna have ups and downs but the CBT gives you the skills to know “ok now this is just a different challenge of my obstacle” CBT shows that “I’m gonna do it this way” and get through that.
It gives you, I think, hope to like “ok I can live my life and be normal” so to speak, again, because you have CBT as your backup.
If I need it it’s there and you have the tools for it.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: With the exception of you know encouraging someone to be patient and work through the system.
Again I think my circumstances coming into it was more of a panic of not knowing what to do and wanting, and having the faults of always wanting to fix things, and knowing that something can’t be fixed overnight.
Interviewer: Ok.
Try and think of three words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it.
Um and what would those words be, it’s kind of a hard question but.
Interviewee: Let’s see, CBT, first just thinking about it would be, I would say, challenging.
Um I would even say somewhat overwhelming because it’s just a different mindset which you’re not really familiar with what to do and to get sometimes when you work with CBT, a particular area it might be a very wide depth of personal time for physical stuff, whatever you have to do that part of it so, challenging, overwhelming, and I would say um also uplifting that there’s an option that kids can do to help themselves.
If they learn the tools of the CBT that they will always be able to instigate them when they need them and be able to move up and say that’s just another challenge that they are able or have the ability to go “this is just what I do.”
Our kids started at four, our daughter started at four and our son started at about seven, so it just like in our household it’s like it’s just another challenge; it’s just another thing we gotta do, and use your CBT to figure out where we’re gonna combat this.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: Um, I would start with hope.
There’s something that could address what the issue is, um introspection.
Yeah I feel like both my wife and I and our child had to think about our behaviors and why we are doing the behaviors we are doing at home and how they are contributing to my daughter’s behavior.
And um discipline, that um you got to learn to do your exercises or your process over and over again whether you need it or not at that very particular period of time
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: So um, discipline to um do the behavior
Interviewer: Ok.
Are there any pictures that come to mind when you think of those words or CBT?
Speaker1 – To me just from being in therapy so much all the time with the children, I think of holding hands or a hand reaching out to grab another hand because it’s like your giving a tool, a way of lie, a way to combat something that can be overwhelming, so somebody’s helping you, helping hand to lift you up and get you to that next step.
Interviewee: I like that, that’s good.
Um, I would also, um think I mean one of things that my daughter has said you know coming here has helped her is that she said she doesn’t feel alone and that she has um you know a realization now that um other kids that she might not know is going through the same thing and that there is someone here that can listen and help her and stuff like that so, um I don’t know if that’s a picture but like not being alone.
So however you might want to display that.
Interviewer: Um, so the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety.
If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life what would you say?
Interviewee: I would say anxiety would become a problem in your life if it affects, interferes with your normal, daily, ritual, routine lifestyle.
If it becomes that anxiety is the bigger beast in the day versus your normal chores, life, day that’s where CBT can come in ad go “let’s stop that and eliminate it and get you back to kind of a normal level of ups and downs” Everyone has ups and downs, you’re always going to but CBT helps you bring down the anxiety and get you on an even keel so you just deal with normal life.
Interviewee: I’d probably use the term that usually you feel anxiety you feel powerless.
Powerless over whatever certain things that may be causing you anxiety or powerless that you don’t know what to do about the behavior that is manifesting from that.
Not feeling you have the power
Interviewer: Ok, yeah.
Um, is there anything else that might be important for other patients to know how anxiety is becoming a problem in their life?
Interviewee: Um, I think sometimes as an individual you might not always understand and see the anxiety’s being overwhelming, sometimes its family members or people closest to you that give you a wakeup call or kind of an intervention that you need to have help with your anxiety.
Um, sometimes its hard for the individual to be able to see [UNDERSCORE].
Um, it kind of sometimes they have to go to rock bottom before they can go wait a minute I really need some help somewhere else because my anxiety is overwhelming and taking over my life.
“I feel I have no life”, kind of thing.
Interviewee: The uh, you know we’ve had to look at our daughter, we’ve had to look at our family, but we have access to both of those areas.
My daughter still feels, I mean she has anxiety, also though, at school, with teachers and with fellow students.
We don’t have access to those really and I don’t know, I don’t have a suggestion on how do you get access that, but I have gone to talk to her teachers but um.
Interviewer: um could you guys tell me if there are
Interviewee: I think CBT targets the brains ability to, if something bad happens, give you a better perspective or give you a way out.
If you use CBT the right way you are able to overcome obstacles that normally with the anxiety brain would hold you back.
So CBT gives you the tools and the ability to push away the stuff and go “okay let’s tackle this and um the ‘we’re gonna get this done’ attitude.”
Interviewee: Would you ask the question again?
Interviewer: Sure, um any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: Um, faulty thinking and trying to recognize when you’re not um where your thinking a situation is one thing but it’s not really and then the ramifications of that.
I think faulty thinking and recognition of the behaviors that you’re doing.
Interviewer: Ok, um so what was your involvement in CBT for your kids and what would you think would be useful for other parents to know?
Interviewee: Um, I’ve been involved with our kinds as far as kind of the “brainstormer” to help figure out what challenges need to be addressed, to be the reminder to “you need to do this part of your therapy”, “this is what you need to do on a daily basis in case you forget”, to be somebody who is there to also help instigate some of the behavior to um to get it solved, sometimes you have to do something with the child in order to get the behavior to move forward you have to put them in a scenario.
Like our son had um, being late for school really upset him so we purposely have been like ok I’m like 5 minutes late, you know two minutes late, five minutes late, you know twice a week so to like push him and you have to be part of the fixing process as a parent to go it’s gonna be ups and downs what you need to do but you have to do multiple steps to help the child sometimes because they’re children not adults they can’t do some of these things on their own that they have struggles with and anxieties, so you have to either put them in the scenario that makes them anxious and you look like being late or take them to a place or thing where it challenges them so they’re challenged enough but not too much.
So it’s kind of all in a way caregiver as a parent, you’re that way as their anxiety brain CBT coach too ‘cause to push them from what you learned from your psychiatrist or psychologist or both.
Um, but yet you have to regulate it so that they can move forward enough.
Interviewee: I like the description of it as a coach.
Trying to encourage and uh, I’ve tried to help, you know debrief with her after her sessions and try understand what she has talked about and try to hold her accountable and to see if she’s doing her exercises, how often have you done the behavior, but try to do that in a nonthreatening and comfortable way for her so that she can feel comfortable telling me.
You know if she’s done a behavior that she’s trying to avoid doing, I like the reference of coach because I can relate to that term.
Interviewee: Because we are, as parents, we all coach them in some way whether it’s manners, or behaviors or anxiety.
Interviewee: But you know, with a coach you can’t always encourage, you have to instruct.
Interviewee: Discipline
Interviewee: And help them to become disciplined and stuff so you know I like that term.
Interviewee: It could be a picture behindTER
Interviewer: Yeah.
Have you read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
And the second part of that is, is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Would that be useful?
Interviewee: Yes I have heard and researched and read from books and or article through the internet and what not about CBT because it was, it’s the more knowledge you gain then you know better you use the tool, so to speak.
I think it would be helpful to at least get a little snippet of statistics of how much success rate that you get with CBT that it would be like it this was proven through whatever studies that it is an option that does work and they have proof that it does so it’s like you should at least try it, because it’s not, it has a really good success rate for people living their lives.
You know?
The way they want to live again.
Interviewee: I think it would be helpful, although, well first of all, I’ve read a lot about it even before it was needed and um but you know, it would be helpful for parents if they have an anxiety over this then they could go somewhere, whether it’s a website or a hand out or whatever you want to do.
Like a reading list or you know recommended readings you know to help direct them, so you know not wondering aimlessly through the internet and running across helpful or unhelpful information.
You know it would be better, I would think, that if you all as a group felt that there was articles or other level of sophistication those articles are that a parent could go, if they wanted to, to read more and stuff.
Interviewer: Um, did you guys know about someone else’s experience with CBT?
Um and was it positive or negative and overall what would be useful for others to know?
We kind of touched on it a little bit already.
Interviewee: For us, um, personal experience our self for us as parents to our children so it was easier for us to go jump into this CBT because it’s just a way of getting tools and whatnot, for the life to com.
And I think, uh, the CBT itself is a process that is needed and adults need to know about it enough so they have that option to give it to their children; give that positive hope.
Interviewee: I had uh, where people have gone through it but not in depth of what they had done.
I did not hear anything negative about it so I just assumed it was positive.
Interviewer: Ok, um so like I was saying, we want to develop a few videos about CBT so now I’m going to ask a few questions more about the videos.
Um, so first we’ll need to decide who will be in the video, so any ideas of characters we should include?
Not specific characters but like, you know, humans, animals.
Like broadly speaking.
Interviewee: Well, I think that um you get two target audiences here, the adults and the parents.
I think it’s easier to do toward the children because if you do it towards the children the parents will, the parents will watch kids’ stuff more than kids will watch parents stuff.
And so I think having a video toward your child, that’s going to inform the parents also.
And if you’re dealing with children who I think maybe who are pre-puberty, you know having uh, nonhumans sometimes they can relate better than somebody they’re actually seeing and you know?
Um… Again I think that it’s easier to do something toward a younger audience and anybody older is going to understand it versus you know if somebody’s younger they might not understand if you do it toward a target audience that’s older.
Interviewee: I agree I would do, it, something that might catch younger kids to even older ones like almost like an anime or the characters of people, real people but in like a cartoon kind of fashion so that it’s engaging enough that you’ll get different areas of groups from young kids to teens and whatnot.
They’ll watch it and a parent like you said, will always watch what they’re kids are doing.
I would keep it more humanlike versus animal-like because it’s more, you’re relating to a human character versus like “the bear” or you know “the tree” or something that’s inanimate or something that’s living but not humanlike, I think might not come across for the kids to go “oh that character is just like me”.
So if it’s more human related I feel like it’s more like oh that little girl is like me, you know, kind of thing.
You know that’s something I think that’s like
.
Interviewee: The uh, yeah I like that idea of like a cartoon person.
I mean the only, sometimes, issue you get with, if you have an actual person is that a child might say “that’s not me”.
And so if it’s a cartoon character they’re going to listen to what that person they’re not going to immediately not associate with that person.
Interviewee: You can make that character out to be very versatile as far as ethnicity and character and clothes and hair that you can go with a broad spectrum that a lot of people could identify with that character.
Interviewee: I think a lot of if you’re trying to do a video is, what is that main age group that you’re trying; that you think is going to be watching that video.
But I would encourage you that whatever that age group is that you think is going to be your target audience, I would go just a type younger because people can always see down they can’t always see up.
And I think uh, and could just be my slant on this but, you know you don’t want to show them a video that they can’t relate to because that’s only going to make them feel more powerless.
I just think that a lot of it is feeling powerless of you know handling your circumstances or situations and stuff, but it needs to be something that they’re going to feel comfortable with.
Interviewer: Do you think, in general, parents, friends, doctor, do you think those people should be characters in the video other than the main child or animal or the main character?
Interviewee: I think so, because if you have some authority figures in there as far as a doctor or a psychologist or psychiatrist.
Somebody or even a teacher or a counselor at school, if you have a figure like that in there, it also might give them an idea of like where else they can get help or where else people can find the tools to learn about CBT, is the caregivers, the teachers, because that gives them focus instead of just the family or the kids or the peers.
You know, you kind of need the more well-rounded picture of what life is anyway.
I think that would add to it.
Interviewee: I feel like, what you had described earlier about the holding hands and being together and stuff.
I think that the more of the influencers on the child that’s causing them anxiety which would be self, home, school, friends, doctors, counselors.
I would think that you would want to portray within that, you know to help them see that this is the world which you know, I’m seeking this therapy through.
Interviewee: Because you have to have a whole picture
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s right.
Interviewee: to kind of see their whole environment that’s it’s going to add, come into and be a part of.
It gives them hope that they can use it in all parts of their life
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: And building off of that, you know, we are trying to decide where they’ll talk, where this video will be set.
So you know, home, school, doctor’s office, somewhere outside, like a park.
Any ideas or inclinations towards those?
Interviewee: I kind of see maybe being in an outdoor kind of area, so it seems like it’s a very, um, it’s not a stifling kind of conversation and whoever they’re talking to or talking about, it’s like they’re outdoor or an activity that’s very; they’re on the edge of what’s happening in the real world.
A soccer game or some type of thing they’re on an edge talking about this and real life passes you by, it goes on, and continues, but we’re here in this outdoor world and we’re talking about what’s happening to me.
Interviewee: I think that unless you’re going to do a montage of home, school, friends, doctors office, I would do a neutral site in essence whether that’s outdoors or something that is not one of them.
Again I think the whole process of this is this isn’t just something you do at a doctor’s office, this isn’t just something you do at home, and this isn’t just something you do at school.
So if the setting of that is something that recognizes one of those main areas, I think it takes away from the notion that, but if you have a neutral place that’s outside or something that’s not one of those main areas.
Unless you want to do any.
Interviewee: Like if you did do it in that way, I would think that it would help show that it encompasses all areas of your life.
It will help you fix all the different areas of your life, if you do choose to do like different scenarios of places.
Like it could help you everywhere.
Interviewee: Right.
I mean I would think that you would either want to try to include as many or one that’s not one of them.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: We give you a 50/50 choice.
LAUGHTER
- Um, So the next thing is what um would they talk about?
We’ve already talked about this with the first set of questions, so generally what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer?
Interviewee: Um, I think possible maybe the characters can talk about how they feel, you know what’s making them feel so; looking for answer kind of thing.
And the CBT could be like this is something I’ve heard, I’ve read, or I’ve done and it happens like this and how it helps you so that and when there’s a problem scenario of “I’m feeling sad” or “my life is this, this, this” and then you have the other friend, or person, or doctor whoever talked to them and know this is an option to help that.
So, for me it’s like feeling-based of your emotions will dictate how your brain is working and how you are living with your anxiety will cause you to have the emotion and so if they talk about the emotions, everybody has those feelings and so the other person the character’s talking to can say “well I feel that, or understand that, and this is what I’ve found, and this is what I do” if it’s like a similar kind of peer like two kids talking about like “oh I do this too.”
Two kids who know one already has CBT in them, one doesn’t, “You seem really sad,” you know, “what’s going on with you?” And they talk a little bit and say “Well, I’ve done this” Scenario kind of thing.
Interviewee: Yeah I think just going back to the basics of “why am I here?” “What is this?” “How would this help?”
Interviewer: ok.
Yeah that makes sense.
So, um, the next question we have I have some pictures to show you guys.
Basically we want to decide how the video is going to look, so I have some examples I can pull up here.
I’ll be able to turn it around for you.
Yeah, let’s see… So um we’re hoping to do um six videos, fifteen minutes long, um featuring multiple and diverse children, content supplemented by animated elements and motion graphics.
So we have three options.
I’ll kind of you just you guys look this over, read this over, and I’ll show you the next two as well… So just let me know when you’re done with that one.
And just generally thinking like it, if you don’t like it, and then we’ll talk about the three of them at the end.
So this is the first one, this is the second one…
Interviewee: Uh, what would this represent?
Interviewer: I think that these are potential characters in this style.
This wouldn’t be the character this would just be the style of animation.
So this is the last one… So again I just want to hear if there is any style here that you guys like or don’t like.
Interviewee: Can I see the first one again?
Interviewer: Of course.
So you’ve got the comic art with live action, the vector art, and then the line art, which is live action with art and stuff sort of drawn around it.
So, any elements you feel like you like or don’t like, style you like or don’t like.
Any suggestions about it in general.
Interviewee: I like the comic book, the third one, the comic book blended.
Interviewer: The comic art blended.
Interviewee: With, if you’re going with a certain target based off age, because Marvel the characters and stuff that’s out and about, you will hit kids who won’t care, won’t think about, won’t be interested, “that’s not going to help me” that kind of thing, that you may not get because that is a wide category kind of the preteen age that’ll be like you know “it’s not cool to have therapy” kind of thing, but this might be like “hey that’s kind of cool”.
I think you might reach some of those boys or some characters that are like
Interviewer: like preteen age.
Interviewee: I think that would be good for that/
Interviewer: And again anything that you like or don’t like in general.
Interviewee: The uh I like this expect for I can see it carry toward boy rather than the boys and I would be concerned.
If it this type of comic it could be a little dark.
And I would be concerned with that.
The second one um
Interviewer: The vector art
Interviewee: yeah Um, these almost look to like childish
Interviewee: Right
Interviewee: You have something that’s interacting like this that you would have
Interviewer: So like live action with characters, as well.
Interviewee: live action with characters would be, I think, a little bit more suitable on it.
Interviewee: Think that would probably go more with the general if you’re getting a big age gap, I think that one would hit both sides.
For girls and boys.
Interviewee: And with all three, I don’t know what yawl’s target age wise is.
I mean, I would think with the elementary age kids that this would be; where you’re getting both.
And again I; there was other comic where I thought were more female friendly and not dark-looking.
And it might be; the first one I thought, I personally…
Interviewer: The line art
Interviewee: Unless, I personally think it’s distracting.
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t think it works with what the message would be about.
Interviewee: Yeah I’m having a little trouble with that one.
There could be benefits for, in my view, the latter two.
But I like the ones where there’s maybe a child in cartoons interacting with each other.
Or where you would have a combination of those two.
Or if there was something on the third one that could appeal to a wide enough audience
Interviewee: Not being a super character like a super hero character kind of thing, be more like a different a pet.
Interviewee: Because, you know, my daughter is and her friends and stuff are still into dolls and they’re not, they don’t follow any of the super heroes and stuff but my son on the other hand doesn’t want anything to do with dolls.
Interviewee: It is that way because I have a 10 year old son who’s like all into that and my 12 year old daughter is like “eh” you know, still dolls and stuff and what not.
And you have to be, to make a video, you kind of have to be somewhere in the middle or you have a set base of boy girl kind of things, where kind of just do both and gear it toward the patient
Interviewee: I guess if I’m giving feedback on um, as far as whatever the end product is to make sure that it is something that all kids would feel comfortable with and not just males or females.
Interviewer: And that lends well in to what I am; this next question is what do you think the take home message from the video should be?
Interviewee: I would say that the take home message would be like in a way they always go like “ask your doctor about so and so” but it would be like a way they show CBT can be to help and that it’s a tool.
You want the child to be able to go like “man I could use that, I could really; that would help me a lot.”
You see, if it gives them an answer as far as something that connects to them and an option I think that that’s kind of what the CBT, for me, needs to be.
It needs to be like “I want to try that; that looks good; it might work”
Interviewee: That they’re not alone, um, with working through this.
That there’s a team.
I know my daughter the feedback she gave me early on was um she didn’t realize how nice everyone would be and helpful everyone would be.
When somebody’s coming into this there’s a lot of anxiety because I think that um, well I don’t know so I’ll just talk about my daughter’s experience but she thought she was in trouble, she’s here because she’s in trouble.
And so I think letting a person know that there’s a process, this is normal, you’re not doing this alone, um there’s a team of us together, the holding the hand type of approach.
Interviewee: And the kids themselves, it think because they feel different, they feel strange, or weird, or they have all these emotions and why is it that Billy who’s next to me doesn’t do that.
So it’s like they need to be able to have something to discern to pull them going like “Hey Billy may not be like that, but Bobby is” Kids are out there like you, you’re not alone.
Interviewee: Right and like she just didn’t realize and then um when, um I don’t know what they said to her in the first couple sessions but she came away saying “Well I thought it was just me”
Interviewee: You do because I am a person who has that so I can go like you just feel like wow you’re just so off and everybody else is so right and you feel so different.
If you can make that kid go like “wow I’m not that different and there people like me and they can help me” Get that message to them.
Interviewee: Right and like you know a sense of hope that there is a process and if you are willing to work through the process you can feel more comfortable and not feel as much anxiety about it.
Not alone
Interviewer: Ok.
And finally is there anything that I missed or anything important that I didn’t ask about that you think is relevant to making CBT videos?
Interviewee: I don’t have any additional comment.
Interviewee: I think it’s all basically it’s just the videos that show that there’s help for the kids, you know, it’s an option and let the parents know as well as the kids that just the education of it because some people may not have that out there of “it’s an option”.
And that’s the big point it’s an option and let the people know “hey I’m going to try it”
Interviewee: How long were you going to make the video, were you all targeting; have you all thought about how long you’re going to make the video for?
The length of it.
Interviewer: Um, according to the slides it said 6 videos, 15 minutes each.
So that could be different elements of CBT.
Not quite sure, that’s kind of what our focus group is trying to figure out like the when, what, how, where.
The whole aspect of it so I don’t think anything is set in stone yet.
Interviewee: Just I would always take into consideration you don’t want to make it more than 22 minutes and you want it more than 7 because you can usually get messages across to people better in that little time frame of 7 to 22 minutes for kids and for adults for that matter.
Interviewer: Note takers is there anything you needed clarified or questions on?
Interviewer2: I guess toward the beginning with the question saying like “What did you want to know about CBT when you first started?” You said you didn’t have any you could think of, so maybe now that we’ve talked about it
Interviewee: Maybe the only thing would be about it would be just the time table, but with the realization of it, for some people it’s a long process.
But just uh.
Interviewee: But a general idea would be nice.
Interviewee: a general idea yeah.
Interviewee: Like typically with this happens with this kid happens… You can’t be specific but you can go like you know, “If you work a little harder at this particular challenge, then you know you do it five days a week versus one you’re gonna move further ahead.”
Those things that we do in our own sessions, the more you do that the faster you’re gonna progress.
Those kind of things would be helpful to know that the more you do it, the more you practice and do your homework and what not, and you’ll get there faster.
Interviewer: Anything else?
I’ll go grab [NAME] and we can let you guys get out of here?