Interviewer1: Okay so thank you so much for meeting with us today.
Uh, I’m working with a team of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy, uh, which is the type of therapy that he’s been receiving here at our clinic.
Um, for this project, we want to develop a few, short educational videos about cognitive behavioral therapy um for children and their parents that are coming in to receive it.
Um, and since cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful, we’ll be referring to it as CBT from now on.
Interviewee: Gotcha
Interviewer1: Um, so to start, please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT.
Interviewee: … uh … so, um, in children’s or in general?
Interviewer1: You can do in general and then for children.
Interviewee: Uh … well, uh, I could only answer the part that I was, um ..., concerned about my son
Interviewer1: Okay
Interviewee: So I’m not sure if I’ll be able to give the general, you know, explanation
Interviewer1: No, that’s fine
Interviewee: So in my son’s case, it was like that, um, something was holding him to actually flourish and be able to ,uh … um , express his feelings, his thoughts, be able to defend himself.
So I wasn’t sure if it’s um self-confidence, is it uh ADD because my daughter has ADHD.
So in he had shown some anxiety, um, so that’s why we thought okay, we need to have him to be tested.
So, and then people tested and they said he has anxiety.
So we have gotten maybe, 2 or 4 sessions so it hasn’t been a long time so it’s been mostly to know, uh, put it on to know what he’s going through.
It hasn’t gotten a lot of, uh um … therapy.
Interview 1: Right.
Interviewee: To help him.
So, I know um, how much of the therapy he has gotten, it’s been really helping him move forward because one of the things that, um, has changed since he started the therapy is that my daughter moved out.
So, that component, I think that helped to not to be stressed out.
So, um, he doesn’t actually do a couple of uh that the doctor asked him to do to help him with anxiety.
He says “no I don’t feel any anxiety” so I’m not sure that um … at this point, um, what he has gotten through the therapy has helped him
Interviewer1: But you think the therapy will help him express him and make him bounded?
Interviewee: Bounded to himself, yeah, and if he, if there are things that keep him, that hold him back, so he will be able to find a way to fight it instead of just ignoring it.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, could you tell me what you know about CBT or how you would explain what CBT is?
Interviewee: Unfortunately, I won’t be able to answer that.
Interviewer1: Um, so when you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what kind of questions you had or what you would want to know about CBT?
Interviewee: It never came up, actually, in the conversation, the cognitive behavioral therapy.
So as I said, we had some concern about his memory, about his forgetting stuff, being able.
So thinking that it was ADD, it actually to calm and have him tested.
So uh, it never crossed my mind that okay, this is something that I need to go uh study because it never uh … um, portrayed as cognitive difficulty.
So I said okay, he has anxiety, so that’s why it’s a little bit difficult for me to talk about it in a [
]
Interviewer1: Um, So did you know anything about CBT from like the movies or the TV or anything?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer1: No?
Um, and then are there any parts of the therapy so far that are confusing to you?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer1: No?
Um, what would you want to tell someone who is about to start CBT?
Interviewee: So um, I want to just make it clear.
So he’s getting the therapy for his anxiety.
So is this considered to be CBT?
Because maybe, as we had our session, the student came and talk about it and I thought it was about anxiety.
Interviewer1: So, this like basically the CBT is to help him fight the anxiety.
Likes it’s the type of therapy that helps him combat the anxiety.
Interviewee: Anxiety, okay.
Okay, so as I said, because it’s been really 4 or 5 sessions, and 2-3 sessions, it was just for the doctor to know him and understand, you know, what are the things that bother him, uh, so it’s been maybe 2-3 sessions that he has given him some techniques to help him with anxiety.
So one of them was like breathing technique.
If he feels like that, okay, he’s in a situation that he’s not able to focus and he feels he’s going to pick his nails because that’s one of the things he, uh, one of the things that he does when he’s anxious.
He’s very tense, he actually picks his fingers, uh so, so he, the doctor told him try this uh technique.
But he asked him to do it every day so he would become more comfortable.
And then when the situation comes back that he’s anxious, it just comes naturally to him to think about okay, what I need to do?
So um, so I think that was helpful because um, he doesn’t know he has anxiety.
He doesn’t uh call it anxiety.
He says okay, this is, okay this is what I feel, how I feel.
But I think uh knowing [
] and practicing, so it’s like training your brain.
So it’s that, so in that sense I see the benefit of, you know, therapy that he’s getting.
So that’s one technique that, um uh, actually he’s trying to actually do it every day and um.
So the second session that he had, I wasn’t in the room so it was only him with the doctor but then I asked my son so it was like uh if there was a situation that he felt like that he doesn’t like it so he needs to think about it and come up with the question so that why I’m feeling that way?
Is there any uh, is this my assumption?
Or there could be another reason for what things are happening.
So instead of thinking the worst scenario, so he could think okay maybe there was something that caused this situation and it’s not difficult.
For example.
If my mom is not picking up the phone, he might think oh there is an accident and that makes him to be anxious.
Instead of that, he can think okay, what are the other reasons might be that my mom is not picking up the phone?
So it’s with that, the things that might make him anxious, he could start asking questions and instead of choosing the first answer that comes to his mind, that oh maybe an accident happened, oh the worst thing that could happen, he could think about other scenarios.
So I think that’s helpful.
That’s uh, I’m not saying that, uh, she gets into those situations because I ask him every day, did you actually need to sit down and think about the situation because you were anxious?
He said no. But at least, I think it’s good that he knows these are the things that he can use to help him to fight whatever he’s going through
Interviewer1: Right, so you think the CBT helps with the techniques and helps him with his thinking to be more rational?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah exactly
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, so think of three words that describe how you feel about the kind of therapy.
Um, what would those words be?
Interviewee: Um … the type of therapy he’s getting?
Interviewer1: Mmhmm
Interviewee: Okay … um … thoughtful, calm … um less impulsive?
Interviewer1: Thoughtful, calm and less impulsive?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer1: Okay.
And if you were to add a picture to each of these words, what would that be?
Interviewee: For calm, I’d put uh, I would say … river?
Or ocean?
Interviewer1: Mmmhmm
Interviewee: Um …
Interviewee: For thoughtful, um … I can’t come up with anything for thoughtful and
Interviewer1: Less impulsive
Interviewee: Less impulsive.
Um, picture of two people.
One is being shouting or being aggressive and the second person, uh taking his time,
Interviewer1: Okay.
Interviewee: Not responding right away.
Interviewer1: Um, so the goal of cognitive behavioral therapy, or CBT, is to reduce anxiety.
So if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Interviewee: Uh, I, well, at least in my son’s case, I would say that, um, it could impact, if they’re at the school, it could impact their school definitely.
That’s what I’ve seen.
Uh, they forget, uh, what some of the important things that they need to do.
Uh, they become less organized and uh … some parents might look at it as oh, maybe my kid uh is not that smart or you know, it-it’s um, they might miss that okay, this their grades, it’s might be something that they could address it by simple therapy.
I think in our case, that was what I was seeing.
My son uh is very smart and so, but then I saw his scores going down, so that was alarming and I think so what could be the problem that makes him uh, you know that uh, that has caused his grades to go down.
So by addressing it and finding out, okay what is it that is causing it then you can uh seek the right treatment or right therapy to actually help your kid to feel good about themselves because at some point, my kid mmm could tell me oh maybe I’m not that smart or maybe this or maybe that.
But by taking away, by helping reduce the anxiety through the therapy, then you would show the kid okay, it’s not you, or it’s not, it’s not something that um, it’s not something that you cannot fight.
It’s something that can be addressed by simple therapy and then, because kids are going through a lot of things and you want to make sure that uh you address things that you can address.
And then help the kids to uh actually flourish and get the confidence that they thought they don’t have it because um because what anxiety impacted in their school or in their uh, everyday um um activity that they have, with their teachers with their, you know, friends.
So I think it’s very important that if the kid has anxiety that we diagnose and take it seriously.
Interviewer1: Okay, so you first started noticing it with his, like schoolwork?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer1: And also, you like wanted him to know that it wasn’t him, it was something outside of him that you could fix through therapy.
Interviewee: Yes, exactly.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that the therapy targets?
So like thoughts, feelings, or actions?
Interviewee: Um I feel, um, I think um feelings definitely.
Feeling, actions, and I think all three, um get um, affected by, by the right therapy, definitely.
And my son actually gets OT, uh occupational therapy as well.
So, he’s, he’s doing that therapy for more than, I think, since beginning of August.
So it’s been, it’s been four months.
So the techniques that he’s getting from OT even though it’s not uh
Interviewer1: CBT?
Interviewee: YesS It’s still, it’s very helpful.
So it’s helping with him becoming more organized, creating good habits.
So in general, I think all type of therapies are good if they are um if they are addressed to the uh, to the issues parents or kids are bringing up.
So it could be occupational therapy or it could be a therapy that helps with anxiety and many other therapies that I don’t knowS.
Interviewer1: So I know you talked about this earlier, how um the CBT has been helping him like change his thought processes.
Interviewee: Mmmhmm
Interviewer1: So how would you say that it’s been helping him with his feelings?
Interviewee: Well unfortunately, he’s not kind of kid who would talk a lot and he’s very busy with school and since uh [
], he’s in a magnet program in middle school so when he comes home at 5pm and he goes to work, you know, finishing his homework, so there’s not a lot of uh, so it’s, there are not a lot of um scenarios that I could see and say “oh okay, that happened and he didn’t respond the right way or he did uh um uh, he-he-he did the right response”.
So it was so obvious when my daughter was living with us because they would get in a lot of arguments and I could see that okay, he’s not able to uh actually stand up for himself.
He would get upset so quickly and he would leave but at right now, he’s only kidS at home and he gets all the attention and everything.
So and at the school would ask him if he has any issues, if there was any scenario that he thought that made him upset or anything and he always said “no, everything is fine”.
So, so that it makes it a little bit difficult if the therapy is working or not because he’s not in it, a situation or environment that I could like “oh okay, he’s exposed to um um cases that his anxiety might kick and, so that’s why it makes it a little bit difficult for me to know if it’s working, if it’s not working because, like I said, he’s not talking a lot at home and um, there’s not a lot of interaction at home that create uh, create the environment or create a scenario that he feels like “okay, now I have to stand up for myself” or “there’s something that I need to address”.
Interviewer1: Okay, um are there any questions you’d wished you’d asked before starting CBT?
Interviewee: Um I think, well, because uh, because of my daughter, with my daughter has ADHD and unfortunately, we addressed it so late.
So we uh, so that’s why we started him so early.
So right away when I found out okay, this thing could be addressed by therapy so I said “okay, he needs to be uh uh tested”.
But whereas for my daughter, unfortunately I didn’t do any study, I just said oh no, she’s uh um uh, if she says “I’m not focused” or she’s impulsive, it’s something that she needs to work on it and you know that’s discipline.
So all of this but when she was, at the beginning of senior year, if I’m not mistaken, or at the end of um sophomore year, I’m sorry, junior year.
I think we had her to be tested and they said “yes, she has ADHD” and for her, she didn’t get any, oh she, oh I’m sorry.
She-she started getting occupational therapy as well as started medication and I saw a huge difference.
So even though I might not be able to give you um good answers of what him because, as I said, we found right away and the environment she is-he is right now is not really stressful but for my daughter, I could say that it was phenomenal, the therapy that she got and um, medication, the combination worked very well for her.
Interviewer1: So you would want other parents to know that they should start as soon as possible?
Interviewee: Yes, exactly, as soon as possible.
Interviewer1: Okay. Um, and what’s your involvement in his therapy?
Interviewee: So for him, um so I propose occupational therapy and the therapy he’s getting for his anxiety so I, I would remind himS I have the job of reminding him, for example, he has a routine that he needs to follow at night and in the morning so I, I would remind him.
And I would ask him about the situation at his school, if there was any situation that he felt like that okay, he’s very stressed out, he has uh he has difficulty conducting his thought.
So I would ask him of the situation that I think might make him anxious.
So um, so I think parents needs to be involved, definitely, because um kids are being kids.
They might um forget so by being involved and being like a someone that could remind or um, ask them uh what different things happened at the school, especially if they’re at the school.
Then I think, they could uh create conversation and find out okay, if the therapy’s working or not because um, then they can address it the next session with the therapy and give feedback, what has been work, what has not been work.
And they can um modify if it needs to be modified.
Interviewer1: Right, so you would just want other parents to know that they should remind their children, um check in on them, see how they’re doing, so that they can make sure that there’s progress.
Interviewee: Exactly, because I think, especially if the kids are young, I know that if they are, let’s say, in elementary school, I’m sure the parents are going to be so involved but say even in middle school and high school, um you might say oh our kids are uh independent but still they need uh us to be um to be there to supervise and help them uh in any way that we can.
Interviewer1: So, parent involvement and support is vital?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, have you heard or read any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer1: Do you think this is something we should talk about in the video?
Interviewee: Uhh, well I think it would help because for me like still I have a hard time saying anxiety is CBT, you know, or the therapy that he’s getting is considered to be.
I think, yeah, I think for maybe a little bit talking about what is it and make it very simple that um it’s not like a [
] it’s like um … It’s hard to understand.
I think it has to be very simple, especially if it’s going to be uh in videos to be something simple that both parents and you know uh kids would understand and they’ll know later oh this is something uh, you know sometimes, um, I don’t know how to put it.
Um, there are some phrases that you go oh that should be so difficult to understand but then when you look at it and you analyze it, it’s so simple.
So it’s a mouthful, CBT, so someone might think this is so, something hard to understand but if you make it, break it down what does it mean and give some simple examples maybe that will be helpful.
Interviewer1: Right, so just everyday language that anyone can understand.
Interviewee: Yeah, yes, exactly.
Interviewer1: Okay um did you know about anybody else’s experience with CBT?
Interviewee: Hmmm … No, other than my daughter and my son, yeah.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, so now we get to transition to the part of the interview where we actually talk about how the video will look like.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer1: So first, we need to decide who will be in the video.
So what characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: Uh, I think parents should be there.
Um, kids, parents definitely.
Um … I think with um bullying being so common at the school, perhaps a scene at the school would be something.
Like uh a classroom or playground where kids interact with other, you know other kids.
Um, some of the uh anxiety might come from kids not feeling like that they’re not going to be accepted or feeling like oh I can’t say this because with my daughter, uh one thing that we tried to work on through the occupational therapy was that you shouldn’t care as much about what others think about you, or your thought.
If you feel like that this is the right thing to say, you should say it.
So I think it would be great if there is, if there is a scene that there are kids that are talking about, you know, um I don’t know, uh a subject.
And if the kids think it’s the right thing to say, they shouldn’t feel like oh I’m going to be judged.
And then uh uh so they could be able to say it without the fear of being judged or being bullied.
Interviewer1: Okay, so kids have the confidence to say what they believe is right?
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly.
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um and you said, you mentioned that they should talk at school.
Do you think there should be other scenes at like the home or the doctor’s office?
Interviewee: I think that would help too, doctor’s office because then kids don’t uh feel like oh I’m going to see a doctor you know, it becomes like uh, you want to make it like it’s not such a big deal.
But some kids might think oh what’s wrong with me that I want to see a doctor?
I’m healthy, there is nothing wrong with me.
I think uh making it comfortable, making it like uh like it’s not such a big deal.
The person is just going to be like, you know, someone like your parent, a parent, a teacher, that is going to help with the, with your anxiety, for example.
So create the connection that uh kids have with teacher, they can have it with their therapist as well.
Interviewer1: That’s great.
Um, so now we should decide what they will talk about.
So you’ve already started mentioning this, how we should talk about what CBT is in simpler terms, but what other questions do our characters need to ask and answer?
Interviewee: Um … you mean uh in understanding what CBT is?
Interviewer1: Like do you think they should find out about the CBT explanation about CBT can become a problem in someone else’s life?
Interviewee: I think that would be great, yeah, because I think that some parents might uh feel like okay, it’s nothing.
Because I had this conversation with a couple of my colleagues before having my son to be tested.
I said my son was like this, he did this, I don’t know why he’s doing it.
And my colleague said oh you know, it’s just the age, it’s just a phase, you know, it’s a phase, it’s going to uh go away.
Eventually, they going to learn.
So eventually going to learn, yes they might but um if there is something that can make the lives of our kids easier, why shouldn’t we do it?
So I think it’s very important that uh saying that if you don’t address something maybe as simple as anxiety, what are the impacts it’s going to have?
It’s going to impact their confidence, it’s going to impact uh on their relationships, uh it could be personal relationships, could be friendship.
So I think yeah, definitely.
And I think it’s very important that show parents that they shouldn’t make like, they shouldn’t think that oh it’s something that is going to go away by itself.
In my case, I thought oh okay, it’s just the sibling but not for my son, as I said, for my daughter.
No, you have to work hard [
], you know?
At this point I feel like if there is something that could help our kids’ lives easier, you should do it.
Interviewer1: So you show them that there is an option that is available to them?
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer1: Helps make their kids’ lives easier?
Interviewee: Yeah, yes.
Interviewer1: So, should they talk about how it’s worked for other kids?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so, yeah.
Especially address for that you might not get a lot of, you know, good feedbacks, in terms of if it has worked or not, because, as I said we, [
] so early for him and then it’s so early in the process, but other parents that uh you have had this interview and uh their feedbacks and what worked for them, I think that would be great if you include it without mentioning the names or
Interviewer1: Right, right.
Um, and uh should they ask about what parents can and can’t do to help?
Interviewee: Um … I, I think so.
Yeah, I think showing that their involvement is going to be important, yeah but at the same time, not making it oh okay.
Because some parents say oh then why I’m bringing my kid to the therapy if I’m going to be as involved?
So it should be the way that, you know what, if you want to see the great impact then you need to be engaged.
So not making it oh okay so, I don’t know.
Some parents say no, if I’m going to have the therapy to help my kid, so why should I be involved?
So then why should I pay?
So I’m going to do it myself.
So making it that, you know what, it’s going to make the loves of both parents and kids’ easier but it requires some involvement and support.
Interviewer1: Support.
Okay, so now we get to the fun part where we get to decide how the videos will look.
So, first of all, are there any cartoons or animated movies that you like?
Interviewee: Um … well, I know that kids like … Me, I don’t watch um like animated movies or cartoons but I think kids could be the one could give good examples.
Interviewer1: So I have three options here and you can take a minute to flip through them.
And then, after you’ve looked through them, could you let me know which style you like the most?
Interviewee: Okay …
Interviewee: So this part is going to, so you guys going to have the different version for different group age?
So it’s not… it’s going to be one for every group age can watch?
-
Interviewer: So I think we’re going to have one set of videos for children, and we’re still deciding if we’re going to make a separate set for parents.
Interviewee: Okay… well I think I like the third one.
Interviewer: The third one?
Interviewee: The comic, yeah.
Because with the first and second one, I feel like it’s going to be hard to target all the kids.
Let’s say if you make something, it’s so hard to cover all ages.
It might satisfy one age group, the first one, but especially the second one, I feel like it makes it so limited.
It would be harder to connect with older ages.
The first one I think you could have for kids in middle school age and have the scenario or another frame of video that is older kids, because it’s going to be difficult to target things that make both middle school and high school kids anxious.
But for comic, I think it’s everyone, every age who can relate to it, and it makes it a little easier to make something that kids from elementary school, middle school, and high school can watch without feeling like, “Oh, it’s not for my age.”
So that’s my thought.
I think comic would make it a little bit easier to target all groups, all age groups.
Whereas the second one I think is especially for older kids.
The first one is fine I think, but I like the third one.
Interviewer: Okay.
Finally, what do you think the take home message for the video should be?
Interviewee: It shouldn’t be something that parents feel like, “Oh there is something else I need to be worried about.”
It should be something like, “Oh!
That’s something I can make them feel like they want to do it!” they don’t feel like, “Oh, this is something else that needs planning of what I’m going to do,” because as parents, we have so many thing that we need to think about.
So, if we make this something that’s going to be beneficial, it doesn’t really require a lot of planning from parents, then it makes it a lot easier.
It makes it a lot more appealing for them to go and actually seek the help that is going to be available.
I think that’s very important.
So for me, if it’s something like, “Oh, I have to plan for it.
Oh, I have to do this,” then I’m less likely to take the initiative.
Whereas if it’s something simple like, “Oh!
Everything is going to be there.
Yes, I’m going to have some engagement, yes I’m going to be there, but most of it is going to be done through the therapy and by going every week or every two weeks, you’re going to actually check the progress.
It’s not just going to be you feeling like, “Okay, am I seeing the progress or not?” it’s a collaboration, with the parent and the doctor or therapist.”
Interviewer: Okay, so just get them excited for therapy?
Interviewee: Get them excited for therapy, not for them to feel like, “This is something extra you need to think about or plan for.”
Make it easy.
The second thing would be, just make it so that kids don’t feel like there’s something wrong with them which is why their parents are taking them to the doctor.
No, no, no, it’s not like that.
It’s like the way that teachers are helping us to grow academically and personally, so the therapist is going to help us in different aspects of our lives that we need help.
Interviewer: So let kids know that there’s nothing wrong with them?
Interviewee: That it’s okay, yes.
Because some kids are like, “Oh, if my friends find out that I’m seeking therapy that must mean something’s wrong with me.”
That cognitively.
I don’t want to use the word disabled, but something’s wrong.
So make it like, “No, it’s normal.”
As I said, the name CBT, cognitive, some people might say, “Okay, that means that you or your kid have some mental problem.”
So it has to be made like, yes, it’s a big word but that doesn’t mean it’s something where you feel like you have to be labeled for doing the therapy.
Interviewer: Okay, is there anything I missed?
Anything else you would like to talk about?
Interviewee: So these videos, will be available where?
At the school level?
Interviewer: Mostly for right now, we’re thinking it’s for patients or parents that are considering going into therapy, but we have heard that we should make it available to schools so that kids know that the option is available to them.
Interviewee: Okay.
I think that would be great because for people who are coming here, they have already taken the step, so it’s going to help them to continue.
But I think it would be very helpful if it’s being shown at the school because like I’ve said, for me, I felt like I neglected, and I felt like, “Oh no, this is simply because my kid needs to work harder,” but after I brought my daughter and I saw what’s possible, I saw the benefit of it, I was like, “Okay, I want to do it for my son too.
[UNDERSCORE] Oh no, he’s going to be labeled, because there is this, especially with international people, this stigma of, “Oh, you’re going to therapy?
Something must be wrong.”
So I think if this is available at the school or even if the school let parents know that these videos are available, and if they want to, they can access it.
Then parents can look at it if they feel like, “Okay, maybe I want to give it a try.”
Because I think you would see the benefit of it for people who don’t know about your program.
And I think the best place is school- that’s where parents get their information most of the time.
Interviewer: So just make it more accessible so that more people are educated and not scared of it?
Interviewee: Exactly, yes.
Interviewer: Okay, is there anything else?
Interviewee: No, I think that’s it.
Interviewer: Thank you so much for your time.
Interviewee: Of course.