Interviewer: Alright so thanks for meeting with us today.
We already kind of went through a lot of what the study is about.
To just kind of reiterate, we are going to talk about cognitive behavioral therapy so really just the therapy that we are going here at the clinic.
So you may have some experience with other types of therapy, we’re going to try to focus on this type of therapy here.
Ideally we’ll use this to create some videos.
We haven’t quite decided yet if it will be more geared towards children and parents or if we’re going to do two separate videos.
So that’s some questions you might have different thoughts on based off of either.
Interviewee: Do you include the FEAR facers camp?
Is that a part of the clinic from here?
Interviewer: Yes, you can include stuff from FEAR facers.
Interviewee: Because that was very awesome.
Interviewer: I’m a big fan of FEAR facers, so yeah.
That would be fine for this as well.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Alright so just to start, can you tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT or cognitive behavioral therapy- the therapy that we talked about?
Interviewee: What comes to mind would be real-time applicable practicing different scenarios that base some sort of psychological- internal thing that’s going on with a person but try to simulate and actively address but it feels like, what it looks like and then continuing to sort of arming someone with tools so that they’re able to get used to that sort of feeling and how to handle themselves when they’re potentially experiencing that for real.
Interviewer: Okay.
So really simulating a real life experience and giving them tools for helping with that.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay.
Sounds like you do know quite a bit about CBT, have some experience.
Could you kind of tell me what you do know about CBT in general?
Or how would you explain it to someone else?
If it’s any different from what you said.
Interviewee: Sort of- I feel like it’s like thinking about, sort of that metacognition where you’re thinking about your thinking.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: Normally you aren’t asked to do that unless it’s sort of causing some sort of distress to one’s self to think about what you’re thinking with certain things.
I lost my train of thought…
Interviewer: You were talking about metacognition and thinking about thinking when normally you wouldn’t do that.
Interviewee: What was your question now?
Interviewer: Oh, my question was just how would you explain CBT to someone else?
Interviewee: Okay.
Yeah it would be thinking about your thinking and then sort of like almost working backwards to try to feel like, okay this is, you know, this is the end of result of something and backtracking to think what was it that got me here or what was I doing or what patterns or habits am I seeing that are continually arriving me at this result.
I always feel like you can pinpoint a result but then trying to figure out what got us here or why are we here and then sort of working backwards from that and realizing the thought process that kind of preceded wherever you are right now.
That you don’t want to be.
Interviewer: Right so realizing this is the result…
Interviewee: A thought process that happened and kind of thinking about okay recognizing where does this start?
What was the beginning of this?
If you can recognize that start, kind of trying to- you’re gaining tools that will be able to- you can, when you find yourself in that process or anywhere in there realizing hey I’m familiar with this.
I kind of know where this is going to go and trying to stop the cycle or sort of divert into something else so you don’t end up in that same spot again.
I don’t know if I’m making any sense right now.
If I could draw a picture, yeah I’m such a visual person about it.
But to me that’s what it is to sort of- realizing that there are patterns that are happening and you’re uncomfortable with and that are in some way you would seek this sort of therapy out by because you recognize that you’re not happy or you’re uncomfortable or that in life things are limited for you because of this thing that is happening over and over but then recognizing, like backtracking and recognizing the signals of it’s coming.
So that you can try to prevent continuing that spiral or being in that situation or frame of mind again over and over.
Interviewer: So there’s, you know, those thoughts having something to help you with preventing it from spiraling.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay.
So kind of, either when you came here or for summer camp.
Was summer camp before you came here or did you come here first?
Interviewee: Here first.
Interviewer: Here first?
Okay. What was- do you remember what questions you had when you first came here?
As far as what to expect or what did you want to know about the therapy?
So it sounds like you had a good idea of what it entails but.
Interviewee: Well it was sort of strange because we were on the waiting list for a really long time so we ended up starting therapy with- I don’t remember it was so long ago- how it wasn’t normally done that way type situation but I don’t remember when it was supposed to be done it was like forever out long we couldn’t do it so we started seeing someone first so at first it was sort of getting a diagnosis of even what was going on and finding out that there were a combination potentially of things going.
But I lost my train of thought again…
[PAUSED]
– Transcribed by Kendall
Interviewer: That’s okay.
Interviewee: I did not eat lunch today.
Yeah, that’s the first water I’ve had today.
It’s been a crazy day.
Interviewer: I think, you know, you’re… it’s perfectly fine.
I can definitely- I’ll rephrase that.
But you talked about the diagnosis and it being a combination of things.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: So you talked about that being the first thing and so I’m guessing after that came the recommendation for therapy?
Interviewee: Yes and then we were told because there were- I was like is this going to be talk therapy where we come in and talk about our feelings type thing?
Is that, you know, what’s going on and that’s when we were kind of given a sort of what I felt like was a little bit of a brief overview.
We were told about the fear hierarchy or whatever it was and we were talking and we- once there was a diagnosis of… at first it was generalized anxiety and OCD and so I didn’t even understand really what OCD was at the time.
So I just had thought that it was a physical manifestation only that it was habitual habits that you would be acting out kind of that maybe you had to have a thought process that went with it but I always felt like it had some sort of recognizable physical representation as well.
Then getting, just on our first meeting, talking about no it can even just be a thought process it doesn’t ever even have to be animated.
There is no kind of thing to that and understanding what that was put it into perspective for me to all of a sudden go oh you can get kind of caught in a loop of just thoughts that prevent you from carrying life on comfortably type thing.
So then it was explained to us and she I remember gave us a little diagram that showed two rainbows and something I don’t even remember but talking about that it was basically kind of like an exposure where were going to rate things- your comfort level on things and addressing and things we had already realized, patterns that brought us in in the first place.
Reaching out for help was because recognizing that there was these certain things that kept popping up and… so it was like yeah let’s just start addressing those things and as we worked through those things realizing, you know, it was pretty cool just prioritizing, you know, what you wanted to work with first and really had quick results with- at the time I think my daughter was in 5th grade?
4th grade?
It was like 4 years ago.
Talking about the dedication that it would take to know that there were a couple paths we could do.
You know, Ideally It would be fairly quick and regular but it didn’t- I will just say working with children in the 9-5 to 9-4 window and wanting to work with them every day or every other day was kind of overwhelming as a parent because that interrupts their regular education and lifestyle and stuff.
So we ended up trying to find a way to do both things kind of and so- which presented like it’s kind of going to be longer, we’re going to have to work at this longer type thing but the results happens so quickly and that was really helpful too because it’s kind of heartbreaking as a parent to want to help your child but knowing we can’t come here every day and spend the first two hours- 9-11, you’re going to miss so much school.
That kind of thing but with the actual thing, our experience anyway with the actual- what I love is that it was giving her tools and it was- she could practice things outside of therapy as well that continued to help her benefit, you know, even outside of the actual sessions that we were having.
Interviewee: So… as we’ve worked our way through the therapy sometimes the things have changed or new things have come in and as a parent I already see her navigate.
She uses- applies some of the same techniques almost naturally now, so it’s to the point where we’ve even gone through period- long periods of time where we weren’t coming and… we’re back and it’s been short, sweet and sort of quick just like in some ways a refresher.
But she, you know, she’s an adolescent now so she’s a lot different than she was 4 years ago and is in all kinds of different situations.
Does that answer your question?
Interviewer: You did, yeah.
Yeah no. You talked about, you know, before doing therapy you said they kind of talked about the different paths you could take, they talked about the fear hierarchy, and then I think you mentioned with the rainbow.
Interviewee: Yeah, I forgot what it was.
Lightning and rainbows?
I don’t remember.
Something like that.
I remember but it really, for me and I remember really my daughter too, it was- for us it seemed to put it kind of into oh here’s the plan, here’s what we’re doing.
Here’s where you might be right now but if you continue doing this it will be over time.
To-at the beginning I was like wow this is really intense and intensive.
When we were about to do something like the camp where it was like she went in whatever it was 5 days insanely panicked about some things.
Then by the 5th day she was just like here go ahead give me a shot and she actually did it that day, you know, whereas there were no immunizations before that.
There was no finger pricks.
There was a
of staff, you know, trying to get to her, get her to calm down.
There was avoiding doctor’s appointments, there was- it was just crazy.
It was just crazy how intense it was to just in a quick period of time and that was just one of her things in her fear hierarchy but things that really affected her daily life not even just doctor stuff but just in that short week so many things because it was so intensive.
It was day after day working really really hard so…
Interviewer: So it sounds like you’re saying that knowing the- having the visual representation was helpful to kind of know what to expect and also being able to know the different paths you can take were helpful.
Interviewee: Right.
Yeah, you can do something intensive that’s shorter and I would hopefully assume that other people have those kind of responses.
I can only say what we had or, you know, that if that’s not possible having… and I think it worked well to- we usually have some sort of homework type thing to do and so you’re still working in between your sessions or can be working in between your sessions.
But then yeah, spreading it out over more time so it’s not… benefit both ways.
Yeah, there are different paths you could go.
Interviewer: Right.
It sounds like so- I know it might be difficult to think back 4 years ago.
So it sounds like there were some things that they talked about that really helped you.
Was there anything that you wish you had known that maybe you found out later.
Then if you think about it, you’re like well I wish we had known this when we first started.
And if you don’t that’s okay.
Interviewee: Well one I just wished I would have realized was I remember when we were talking about which kind of path to take I really had no idea and not that-maybe there is not guarantee but like how quickly it could be if it was intensive because looking back, I mean, it took us many months to get through something that was affecting her on a daily basis.
So looking back, it may have been worth to just take a week off of school and just focus on this and then working back to catch up to get through school.
And/or it worked out with the Fear Facers, it was a camp that was available also during a break so, you know, if you can’t- if it wouldn’t work in a schedule just knowing that okay maybe it doesn’t have to be right now but… maybe into the future a little bit we could do these three days right here or, you know, like that kind of thing.
It didn’t even have- it didn’t occur to me we could just sort of protect-protect a time to make this happen.
But that’s in hindsight because I’m probably at the time would have been like this is not going to be that effective.
Not that it wouldn’t be that effective but-
Interviewer: How quick necessarily.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Having gone through it, I’m like wow!
Every single time, even with one session within 48 hours I can see a daily consistent change.
But she is also a very hard worker.
She wants it for herself, it’s not like I’m trying to nag.
I don’t know if you have people who aren’t as motivated.
You know, but for her- for us and for her, it was great sessions, great tools that, you know, she has even been able to adapt and apply even in other situations that she recognizes the feelings or the whatever.
She’s like oh!
You know, I don’t know she uses the tools she’s had.
Also I think that the camps are kind of beneficial just knowing that you’re not- that it’s more common than you realize that people have things that they’re working on that affect them.
Interviewer: So… maybe that might be helpful if people knew that or patients knew that coming in?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Yeah.
Interviewer: That people also have these similar issues.
Interviewee: And people they can probably relate to on many levels.
Not just, you know, not like oh this is another person that has something that would benefit from CBT but oh yeah they’re also, whatever, my age or they have full, whatever not just.
Never mind I don’t know what I’m trying to say.
Interviewer: You’re fine, you’re fine.
Just kind of thinking about that experience.
I know we’re kind of asking a lot of questions that are similar-ish so if this the same as another question and you have the same answer that’s fine.
But just thinking about those experiences, were there any parts of therapy that were really confusing when you started?
Or actually at any point?
Interviewee: No.
I mean I feel like it’s been very self-explanatory.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: To the point.
It’s always actionable.
Whatever they’re doing is like right away… and always reflective.
It’s always based on what her comfort is so I think it gives her a sense of that it’s not just your plan that I’m having to follow but we make this plan together and at any time if I change my mind...
It’s really still your own plan, you just have somebody to kind of guide you through it.
Interviewer: So it’s collaborative.
Interviewee: Yeah. Ultimately I feel like she’s in control of it.
It’s not like you have to do this at any time if you change your mind, you know.
And I think as a child that was probably helpful for her because you tend to be told you’re going to listen to the adults and you’re going to, you know.
At least that’s how we roll but I think her realizing, you know, this is making me way more
being able to vocalize and say never mind not ready for that or you know this is how I am feeling and always being able to give that feedback and it’s always been adjusted immediately and not oh okay well were done but like okay we’ll back it down we’re still going to keep working like this, you know.
I don’t know
Interviewer: She still has some control.
Interviewee: Yeah she’s felt like she’s had some control of it I think so that’s helped her feel like she can still make progress without having to completely submit to everyone.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
You talked about- you mentioned how you didn’t realize that OCD can be this thought labor-
Interviewee: Yeah this really internal.
I didn’t realize- yeah.
Interviewer: It sounds like similarly anxiety you mentioned kind of this thought spiral.
So you mentioned, you know, how that kind of becomes a problem in someone’s life.
If someone- in terms of anxiety and OCD, and this may be similar to your own experiences but what would be important for other patients to know?
So like not necessarily about the therapy itself but about the anxiety that we are trying to treat with CBT?
Does that make sense?
Interviewee: I think so, well from what I have seen it almost they like remedies almost even.
So sometimes it’s like having the anxiety about the OCD or… obsessing about… yeah obsessing about something that’s making you anxious.
It’s almost like sometimes it can be… because I’ve tried to separate them because I know you can, you know, just have one and not the other and I’m trying to separate them but it seems like there’s a dance that there is happening often times and… really I think that the CBD or CBT is applicable to both situations.
So it’s win/win no matter what if it’s something that tends to be that, well I guess they kind of both are well I don’t know at least I’m not experienced that’s kind of what it’s been, she gets stuck in a cycle and then it’s just complete breaks are on, everything is stopping and she can’t break herself free from it without these different tools that she’s finally got.
Just recognizing and realizing what she can sense things right away like my heart rate is picking up and she has tools that she can use that she can do anywhere anytime and if that’s… if it continues to elevate and she feels that going on then she has sort of these checks and balances that she can use.
If it ever gets to the point where she feels like she can’t manage it of course then we usually just come to session to
out whatever is going on and adjusting it a little bit.
That’s kind of been her attempt but her solution our solution…
Interviewer: So you mentioned, oh sorry were you?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: So you mentioned recognizing symptoms of anxiety like heart racing and the reflective piece of utilizing the skills that CBT has brought.
Are there any other skills or specific areas that CBT seems to target that seems to help build… or any thoughts or feelings or actions?
Interviewee: Well I think it is sort of a practice, realizing that it’s something that you have to work out.
It isn’t a practice, it is almost just part of your regular health just like you need to eat food to sort of… you need to move your body.
It’s like a part of your brain that you also have to connect with and maintain like a health sort of balance.
So things that she’s identified for herself that sort of help her balance herself out emotionally and mentally are all things that she uses on a regular basis and makes sure she has, you know, almost like self-medicating in a way.
Using different, you know, breathe, tapping, she does the tapping sometimes.
Things that she can do.
She knows music, she uses music to change things or… I guess it’s just- it’s kind of just general practices that she’s had to work into where it becomes literally its part of her everyday almost.
So it’s like setting yourself up for success in a way.
Whereas before, she would try to set herself up for success by avoiding anything she recognized as a trigger.
So instead it’s almost like I’m going to take care of myself in these ways and if she ever notices, you know, I’m starting to feel these certain things, she used to get crazy headaches, and you know, just aches and pains even all throughout her body but just kind of setting the stage for success for herself in a mental way like incorporating a few of those things, I think.
Did I answer your question again?
I forgot where we were going.
Interviewer: No you did.
You gave me some very specific skills so that was perfect.
So it sounds like she had some specific skills and it sounds like also kind of getting rid of some avoidance.
Interviewee: Alright, good… yeah.
Interviewer: It sounds like that used to be kind of the coping strategy but not-
Interviewee: Yeah.
Well yeah and there’s also the there’s no more reassurance.
There’s no more justifying and this very well could happen.
So you just have to kind of own it like am I choosing to go out in the world and have a life and participate?
Because the other options is just to stay in here and be stuck in there with the what ifs, the it’s going to, that may never play out like that kind of thing...
Yeah, so you have to kind of be- and I think that’s the whole premise right?
It’s kind of like you face it in a small little way and then you get some sort of alright I’m going to take a little bigger bite the next time.
Okay, and okay so that did happen and I’m still okay.
You know, that kind of, you know, has given her sort of a framework to work through things in a supported way.
But also what to do when you’re not here with a bunch of support.
How to support yourself long-term.
Interviewer: As much as in clinic but also outside in the real world.
Interviewee: Right, yeah.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
So for, as a parent, what was your involvement in CBT?
As far as the therapy?
Interviewee: So, I’ve always tried to give the option of letting my child just own it and go without me which is not how I normally parent.
We’re very involved in each other’s lives but I was like if you need to be away from me, okay.
I will accept it, you know.
Who knows, maybe it’s me, you know, that is triggering a bunch of things.
So, kind of, letting a little person makes some, what feels like, big decisions is interesting.
Of course, as a parent, it is a lot of you have to think about the expense just the logistics of making it all happen.
Then, so far we have had everybody it’s always very welcome and inclusive and saying you can come in, you know, you can be a part or role in any way that you want.
I’ve always checked with my daughter every and anytime and say okay do you want me to stay out or if you need me to come in.
Whatever you want, everyone always seems very flexible about making it work out however it needs to be.
In our case there were times where I’d have to sort of nudge and be like okay I think you should.
Have you worked on, have you done your homework yet for that?
The regular parenting- the regular parenting things or just recognizing, you know, we would come up with code words or whatever to kind of help when they’re out and about in the world.
Kind of see that going on, and she’s even had that before with me and she’ll be texting me code words when she’s in a social situation so that I’m just kind of alert.
Okay, she’s feeling the anxiety rising, and usually we have made some plans ahead of time like what that would be and it’s never like abort it’s usually like support and I’ll be here to love you while this goes on but this is- we’re in it kind of together type thing and it’s always worked out way better.
We rarely ever need the plans but just having, I think, that feeling of support that’s just- in whatever form it has needed to be but I feel like that’s just kind of parenting in general.
So I don’t know that’s just parenting with CBT would be normal parenting.
Interviewer: It’s useful for us to know.
I mean, that’s your experience.
Interviewee: But I guess everybody parents different, I don’t know so.
Interviewer: And you mentioned kind of your experience and you mentioned like some of the things that you kind of have to know before you get into it are the logistics and the expense.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Is there anything else that would be useful for other parents to know before they kind of have their child jump into this?
Interviewee: I don’t know anything else, yeah.
Interviewer: That’s fine, yeah.
Okay, so the next several or few questions, I guess, is going to be kind of… geared at kind of how you-where you’ve heard about CBT outside of the clinic and outside of
.
So the first one is kind of about movies, TV, internet, and other people.
So how much did you know about CBT from these other things?
Interviewee: Nothing.
Interviewer: Nothing?
Okay… Did you ever- or have you ever read or heard any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: No?
Is that something, you know, if we did these videos or as we are thinking about these videos would that be something that would be useful to be talked about in the videos?
Or do you think it wouldn’t really be-have an effect.
Interviewee: I mean I feel like everybody loves a bullet point, you know like a statistic any sort of research based quick- if it’s quick.
Interviewer: So quick research base like bullet points, statistics
Interviewee: Statistics, yeah like a statistic.
Whatever, anything that has to do with it.
Success rates, I don’t know, how many- I don’t know.
Interviewer: So it may not necessarily…
Interviewee: Numbers like I always feel like that gives validity to something when you can put a value on it and numbers tend to do that.
Interviewer: When you say numbers or statistics, can you clarify what that would be like?
Is that some kind of percentage of something or is that some other?
Interviewee: Yeah, maybe.
Maybe, I like percentage but I also like bar graphs or pie charts.
Interviewer: Pie charts?
Interviewee: You know, a quick understandable- because I would think if you’re looking at options, you know, there would be other types of therapies that you could do as well.
Yeah.
Interviewer: Some kind of comparison?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think, I don’t know.
Interviewer: That’s perfectly- perfectly fine.
Interviewee: They’ll have to shop everything now and sort of compare.
Interviewer: Everyone’s kind of like a consumer of multiple things.
Interviewee: Right.
Well I mean just even, this is sort of, you know, you have to be active in this.
It’s not a pill you can swallow but you can also swallow pills that will help you through some of these things and it can be a conjunction.
I could see, you know, just presenting in anyway, especially if you’re trying to convince people to go the route of it, which I would think would be the thing is showing it in a beneficial light in comparison to just medication or talk therapy or I don’t even know if that’s what it’s called but that’s what I call it.
Something else to give it, kind of, a measurement- a visual measurement like something- yeah.
Interviewer: Visual- okay, some visual representation and something that’s maybe measureable or something like that.
Okay.
Alright.
Interviewee: An infographic.
You know people love infographics.
Like really really
.
Interviewer: No!
I get what you’re saying.
Yeah, an infographic, people do like infographics it seems.
Okay and you said you didn’t really know about anyone else’s experiences with CBT, right?
Okay.
Interviewee: Not coming into it.
Now I do but not a whole lot.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: But because of my position I end up talking- because I’m involved with so many children and so many families and often working with different families and children- not my child but, you know, somebody else and learning okay so we were here before and now because- you know- I’ve had parents mention before that they are doing CBT with their children on different
Interviewee: you know, oh my gosh you should… and I’ll be like yes isn’t it amazing!
Or you know.
Interviewer: So it sounds like it was mostly positive?
Interviewee: Yes!
I’ve never heard anything negative.
Interviewer: Well we do like- we love to hear that.
No but- right.
Interviewee: I don’t hear a lot about it.
But it’s not like I’ve never heard anybody be oh this was horrible and the biggest waste of time, now we’re really messed up.
Interviewer: Gotcha.
I mean and if it did-
Interviewee: If it did-
Interviewer: It would be good to know, right?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: So it sounds like pretty much all positive even the little bit that you’ve heard.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Alright so we’re almost at the part where we’ll talk about specifically the video.
This last question; when you first learned about it, which again I know we’re going back a little bit, think of three words to describe how you felt about CBT?
Or if you can, what those words would be.
For describing CBT.
Interviewee: I think the only thing I can think of is, you know, sort of tongue and cheek.
It’s just like-
Interviewer: That’s okay.
It can be like if what came to your mind for describing it when you first found out about it or how you felt about it if it’s sort of tongue and cheek, that’s okay.
That’s your personal answer.
Interviewee: It just seems obvious like it’s almost so easy- it seems so obvious.
Duh- why wouldn’t you treat it this way?
Interviewer: Okay, so obvious.
Interviewee: Yeah. It’s just- but it’s almost making things too hard or too whatever, you know.
Trying to think of things.
It doesn’t have to be so complicated like it’s actually a pretty simple step one, step two.
It’s just a process and can be a fairly short process.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I would almost say lather, rinse, repeat.
It’s literally-that’s what your shampoo says- that’s what women shampoo says maybe guy’s shampoo – everyone’s shampoo probably says the same thing.
It’s shampoo.
But like…
Interviewer: So I heard obvious, simple, and what was the third one?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I don’t know I guess quick.
Interviewer: Quick?
Interviewee: We could do that.
Interviewer: Okay.
So obvious, simple, and quick.
They don’t have to be- this is kind of just how you felt.
Interviewee: I know.
Marketing ads, that was my previous job.
All this advertising and graphic design that’s what I always wanted.
I wanted it to be something cheesy like it’s all brain but it’s a no brainer.
You know?
Type situation.
Interviewer: Right, that makes sense.
That’s kind of a fun tagline.
Okay so for those three words that we did come up with and we can do another one for the “it’s all”- what was it?
It’s all brain but a no brainer.
Are there any visuals that you think that would be or good pictures that you think would accompany those pictures?
Just kind of thinking from a video perspective sometimes it’s nice to put pictures.
And it can be one for each one or it could be one for as a group.
Interviewee: Yeah… I’m like flat lined now.
I don’t know- I can’t.
I mean like…
Interviewer: That’s okay.
Interviewee: Can you rephrase you question?
Interviewer: Yeah!
I’ll try to chop it up a little bit.
So if we were to put obvious as a word, what kind of image comes to mind?
What kind of picture?
Interviewee: I don’t have any, which is so funny.
Interviewer: Nothing?
Okay.
Interviewee: There is no picture.
Interviewer: That’s okay.
Interviewee: Static, there’s just static.
Interviewer: Okay, what about- does anything come to mind for simple?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: What about quick?
Interviewee: A stopwatch?
That’s the only thing that pops into my mind.
Interviewer: Okay, a stopwatch?
Okay and what about it’s all brain but it’s a no brainer?
Just wondering if there is any image that you can think of that associates with that.
Interviewee: Yeah like all comedy things.
Interviewer: Just something funny?
Interviewee: Yeah, I can almost see taking out your, and not in a gory way, taking your brain out of your head and rocking it, giving it a hug, you know, just taking care of yourself kind of in a way.
Just all cheesy things.
Just want to bedazzle it, I don’t know.
Interviewer: Cheesy is fine.
Interviewee: That’s what you get right now.
That’s what I’m bringing.
Interviewer: That’s okay.
That’s alright.
Alright, so were going to talk about the videos and then some of the fun part of kind of how they could look.
So, I’ll kind of go through a few questions regarding that and then I have some templates for you to look at.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Kind of what your thoughts are so first thing we need to do is decide who would be in the videos.
What kind of characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: I almost feel like if its kid based, I would almost feel like it would be not… you’re doing a cartoon.
Didn’t you say you’re doing a cartoon so it’s going to be animated?
Interviewer: There- we’re not entirely sure but we are- I think the idea is animated.
Interviewee: I think for adults would be more drawn to, you know, actual people.
But kids are used to everything animated.
Interviewer: So for kids maybe something animated but for adults maybe live action or real people, I guess.
For lack of a better word.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: So not animated?
Interviewee: Maybe.
Interviewer: Maybe?
Interviewee: I’m kind of a big kid so it doesn’t really, I don’t count.
I don’t know I don’t relate to the adultsTER.
Interviewer: What would your preference be would it be to be animated or live action?
Interviewee: I just want it to be funny.
Interviewer: You just want it to be funny?
Okay.
Interviewee: Lighthearted because it’s really stressful.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: It’s really stressful to be worried about someone else and even yourself and realize like you know there’s work to be done I’ve got to make some decisions so I’d rather it be informative, fast, and sort of upbeat and lighthearted because everything’s stressed anyway so um yeah.
Interviewer: Okay.
I think that those are some really good key words like informative, fast…
Interviewee: Don’t want it to be too self-reflective…
Interviewer: But adding some lightheartedness.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
I get that.
Um so as far as what’s in the videos, again these characters, should we have any nonhuman characters?
Interviewee: Definitely.
Interviewer: Definitely?
Okay so animals?
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: Okay, what are some nonhuman characters maybe?
Interviewee: I don’t know I’m just really stuck on robots right now.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: I’m in a robot phase so I do a lot of robot stuff with my students and we talk about our brains all the time, we kiss our brains all the time, and we have a brain train.
And we have train robbers that rob the brains and I make all kinds of silly little animations.
So I was thinking sense my daughter’s OCD is named Mr. Waffles, I can totally play out a video in my head of Mr. Waffles trying to get on the train with her and then kicking him off.
But that’s just what she chose to name her OCD.
So…I don’t know, right now it feels like Looney Toons in my head so it would be a funny thing.
Interviewer: Okay so funny, Looney Toons, possibly animals, possibly some robots.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Not people.
Interviewer: Not people?
Okay.
Interviewee: I don’t know why.
Interviewer: No that’s fair.
Okay so should there be any superheroes?
Interviewee: Um, they would be their own superheroes.
Interviewer: They’d be their own superheroes?
Okay.
Interviewee: Everyone wants to be their own superhero.
Interviewer: No yeah that’s fair.
You know I understand that for sure.
I think a lot of people definitely have the desire to be a superhero.
Interviewee: Well it’s harder for kids too because you gotta worry about, do they identify with that kid or are they the right ethnicity, is it a boy is it a girl, is it a whatever.
And if it’s already a nonperson then they already like it and accept it and don’t compare themselves to it.
Interviewer: That’s a good point and that leads me to my next question; should we include children in the video and if so should it be a boy, girl or both?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I don’t know.
Could be Chris Pratt.
Interviewer: Could be Chris Pratt.
Interviewee: Is it a boy is it a girl.
We don’t know… I give them choices all the time with how they identify themselves or represent themselves you know and I’m always like surprised at what comes back and so given creative freedom you know often times it can be therapeutic to not be yourself sometimes.
I don’t know that it would be relatable as relatable you know if you’re trying to, if you want a child to personally relate immediately then it might be more obvious if you made it people.
But, maybe more entertaining and pay a little closer attention if it wasn’t people.
Interviewer: Gotcha.
So would we include parents, or friends or doctors or would those like kind of fit the non-people?
speaker: I don’t know.
Like at what point?
Like if they were trying to decide if they were gonna, or inform them on what it is.
Interviewer: I think it could be used for either.
So either like you’re about to start; you’re getting some information or do you have a thought on when that would be useful?
Like would it be more useful as kind of like when you’re looking?
This kind of gives you some basic information or as you’re about to start therapy this would be helpful for…
Interviewee: I tend to be a little bit more of a researcher so if it were something I could see or play ahead of time.
.
In that case I guess it could be a little bit of both or it could be separate.
Parents seeking or adults seeking, or for children.
I probably would have watched both and then if I felt like something I would have shown my child the child one because she was already so anxious to begin with, so going into a new situation and meeting someone new for her was already kind of unsettling.
Just to kid of give a friendly face or a light hearted face to it could be beneficial.
Interviewer: When you say “quick” can you give me a timeframe like if it under this amount of time.
Interviewee: Under three minutes.
Interviewer: Okay.
That was helpful because different people have different definitions of “quick” so that’s probably what mine would be as well.
Interviewee: And that’s a pretty long time these days because everybody swipes and clicks and is used to controlling everything like really like ten seconds.
I mean I could usually tell during the first thirty seconds of a lesson like they’re not with me.
Same thing public speaking like if you don’t have them in the first minute or two like people are already starting to whip out their phones and they’re gone.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Makes sense.
I agree.
Things keep getting shorter and shorter it seems like.
So now we’ve said who’s in it.
Now we have to decide where they’re gonna talk.
So like would it be at home, school, doctors office, somewhere outside?
None of the above?
Interviewee: I don’t know.
Any of those places I think would be okay.
I don’t think where is as important like what like just to present your information.
I would keep it simple.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the content, to you, is more important than the location.
Interviewee: Yeah as an adult, the bullet points I would be looking for the bullet points.
The kids aren’t; well depending on their age, but that’s usually not, they like points not bullet points.
They want tokens or points.
“The next level” I don’t know, level up; they’re so into that kind of stuff.
I mean it seems natural that [LOCATION] would be in an office.
I always feel like when we come in here its pediatric so it’s more kid friendly and there are small things for small people and the kids always notice that.
If it’s child friendly, we don’t notice that as much as adults because we are used to everything being our size but like I’m in a child environment all the time so when an adult comes in they’re like “I sit down here?” I mean I promise it will hold you but its low to the ground everything is low to the ground so it’s interesting when you go into an adult’s doctor’s office versus a kids office they notice that stuff and they know it’s for them don’t even ask if they can touch it.
Interviewer: I never really thought about that.
Interviewee: It’s not crazy it totally makes sense.
Until you start observing that stuff I never would have thought about it.
Right away if I don’t want my kids to touch something then this is the level, like if it’s up here or higher they won’t mess with it usually without permission.
But anything that’s down here they think it’s their stuff.
Anything that’s on the coffee table they’ll mess with it.
I you don’t want them to mess with it put it up here.
It’s not just toddlers it’s like my teens are the same way.
-
Interviewee: Anything that’s like in this area is everyone’s.
Pets are the same way, is it’s on their level, and they think that they can have it.
Interviewer: Gotcha, no I can relate to that.
So the next thing, we’ve already talked about who and why and where and now we get to what, which is what they would talk about.
What questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer?
Interviewee: It could kind of be playful… it could be what the roles are, like what do I have to do?
They should ask about what’s expected of me or what the expectations are.
Again, I’m a teacher so I think that’s usually where everything starts.
Kids want to know, “What do I have to do?” “What am I allowed to do?” that kind of thing.
They always just want to know the rules first, they’re always looking for the rules.
As a parent, I also want to know what my role is.
Like I said, it was really great to come into this and be invited in as a parent.
Also, a couple times they’ve said, “Do you mind stepping out,” “Absolutely, of course, as long as my kid’s okay with that, I’m okay with that.”
Making it flexible.
So those are kind of big topics to hit on, just making sure it seems friendlier to the children.
If they know what’s expected of them from the get go.
Interviewee: If it is going to be more child led or patient led, letting them kind of know… I feel like would be helpful.
Interviewer: So it sounds like clarifying expectations and roles.
Should they be… should they find out about the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life?
Would that be useful?
Interviewee: I think so.
Is CBT used for anything else?
Is there other-is it-are most of the people who would be considering CBT, are they people with anxiety?
Is it only anxiety, you know?
Interviewer: Uhm… So asking those types, finding out if that would be helpful?
Interviewee: Well if, I wouldn’t talk about anxiety if that specifically-if CBT is used for broader things.
But if it is primarily, you know what I mean.
Interviewer: Got you.
Interviewee: I wouldn’t want to…
Interviewer: Right.
So, only if the video was designed for people who were coming in for anxiety would that be useful?
Okay.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think so.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
Should they ask about how it has worked for their kids?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Should they ask about how exposures work?
Interviewee: I would think yes?
I would say leave it all out on the table.
Or as much as possible.
It’s a lot to cover but, you know, give a quick little example of what and, you know, that might be enough as a quick little example of even if someone-if it was a casual, silly conversation.
Whatever, it could be a game show I could think of a million different ways.
It’s been the craziest day, guys.
Interviewer: Okay, Right… No you’re okay.
Interviewee: But it could be a game show where there’s a quiz, you know.
Interviewer: Asking questions.
Interviewee: What’s it like, you know, whatever. An interview, I don’t know. I know when I first saw it go down that’s when I was like woah this is what we’re doing and then leaving and thinking that was so simple and so obvious. In some ways being like this is not going to do anything because of just how simple and obvious it was but then being immediately… given examples-seeing personal examples with my child but oh my God it totally worked. Its working and it’s totally useful. Because it did seem so simple, right why wouldn’t we face your fears and why wouldn’t we, you know. I think its almost sometimes giving the permission and the confidence that yes, this is what we’re going to do and it is going to be okay. You are going to be okay. That kind of thing because at first I was sort of like oh this is like I’m glad we didn’t sign up for block off two weeks of our lives to do this because at first I was like this is very basic and very simple. But it got quick results and I remember immediately just being like wow that’s pretty cool. Let’s see what’s next. Yup wow that was really cool too. Having my child feel the same way because the place of terror you’re coming from feels so all-encompassing and for something so simple to give you such relief and control is nice. I don’t know if there is any way to present that. I don’t know if that’s other people’s experiences, I certainly hope so.
Interviewer: We’re glad that it’s your experience.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay, so presenting kind of like how that could… How it seems-
Interviewee: Yeah. What an exposure- what that might even, in a quick basic way showing kind of what the roles would be or what that might look like. A little-
Interviewer: Would including information about parent’s roles and like what they can do to help, would that be beneficial as well?
Interviewee: I think, I mean I’m a parent so I think so but…
Interviewer: Right. And so especially I’m guessing- well so would that be useful even if it was just one video or would that be better in a separate parent video?
Interviewee: In my mind I almost feel like you can do both in one but it would probably need to be longer than three minutes. I don’t know how your content would go but I feel like a kids one would be a little different than what a parent’s one would be. It would be more a little factual based whereas a kid one would be more experienced based. The role playing, like what it’s going to look like. Again you said you didn’t know if this was just going to be pediatrics right? The patients could also be adults.
Interviewer: No. Sorry I may have misspoke. All the patients will be pediatric. The only thing we haven’t decided on what whether or not it would be one video or two separate ones.
Interviewee: I would think to separate ones.
Interviewer: So do you think having two separate videos would be beneficial but in addition would you prefer to have one five minute video or two separate three minute.
Interviewee: I would make it longer. I mean it doesn’t even have to be 3 minutes just depending on how much content you have. You can probably keep kids for three minutes but you probably can’t keep adults that long. You would keep me that long.
Interviewer: Good to know.
Interviewee: unless I got really sidetracked.
Interviewer: So we’re almost done and I really appreciate your time. We just have to go over the “how” the video would look. Just kind of the fun part of this. And then just kind of the take home message, then we should be done. So we talked about Loony Tunes before, are there any other animated movies that you like?
Interviewee: I mean everybody loves like; the minion stuff is like hilarious. And I also think like part of the reason why is because they’re not people. Like what are they, who even knows? So fun. It’s pretty entertaining, anything that have comedy is good. I use a lot of “brainpop”. I don’t know if you know that, it’s the robot and the girl in the classroom and they just love anytime they hear the robot noises they want like the MAKES_NOISE like he’s very squeaky and they want all the extra stuff.
Interviewer: So they like, like the little squeakiness of the robot.
Interviewee: Yeah. Even my math curriculum has like animated stuff. And little monsters, they like the monsters too but they like the robots.
Interviewer: I mean its good to know that that’s what they enjoy.
Interviewee: Boys and girls alike.
Interviewer: Pretty universal robot. So my examples are going to be a little different from those. But I’ll let you look at those at your leisure. We have three options there, so as you’re looking through them I’m going to ask you a couples questions first about your overall preference. So which one you like the most and then if you think kids would like something different from what you like.
Interviewee: This looks like older kids to me.
Interviewer: Option 3
Interviewee: This looks a little more mature like teens. This feels very vanilla to me.
Interviewer: Options two seems kind of vanilla?
Interviewee: Like its friendly but this one is the one I like the best. It seems more creative and youthful but also that’s what I’m drawn to.  I also really like it because you blend humans and I like anything that looks hand rendered and I think kids identify with that too.
Interviewer: So you like option 1 the best and you like the mixture of the animated and the hand drawn. You like that options personally the best but would that be the best for kids?
Interviewee:  I don’t know. These are softer and playful
Interviewer: Option 2 is a little bit softer. Ok. What do you think should be the take home message of these videos? We’ve kind of hit on this so… Unless I’m mistaken.
Interviewee: I feel like there’s so many buzzwords but you know it really is just like doable because you get results. You can see results. Nearly immediately without much doing on my part other than bringing my child here and getting him the space to be; whatever happens in there. And then just kind of being aware and I did get some tips like you can’t be so nice. Don’t be so reassuring or affirming. Just not like trying to fix everything. But like it really is doable; it’s not a hard thing to do or take a lot of resources to do other than time and money. So I think it’s pretty quick. User friendly. Again I didn’t have to as a parent lead things or keep up with a whole lot like it’s something that really empowered my child to own it and take it into her own hands for the most part.
Interviewer: That makes a lot of sense. You as a parent or you as a child that would be nice to get from the video.
Interviewee: Yeah. Kids like to be empowered. I feel like there’s almost two schools nowadays. The kids that have no power and the kids that have way too much power. There’s not many of the in between kids. I feel like anybody who feels like they’re in a place where they’re needing therapy like this is your thing to do for yourself kind of type thing and makes it user friendly. Again the parent it’s not a thing where you have to poke and nag because usually whatever is on their list is usually on yours including everything else. It really wasn’t a burden other than me getting her here and paying for everything. Again I think it’s just everybody really likes it, it’s convenient, you get fast results, it’s very empowering for your child or it was for us. It just seems effective and also another thing is that there’s no side effects. I almost feel like there could be a parody video or comedy that would just probably be for me but like about how you know there’s all these happy people and they’re like “yes, yes and you might die and your skin may fall off and everything’s burning but there’s still 27% of people that do…” Like everything is said with a smile on the face. Sounds so great but really what they’re telling you is terrible. Like this is not terrible. The risk that is involved in doing this method it’s like pretty low risk for pretty quick results.
Interviewer: Well is there anything that I missed or anything important that I didn’t ask about?
Interviewee: I don’t think so. I just wish that this was more available like just to the public in general. Mental health has become such a big thing, especially with adolescence. Like I have to go to trainings all the time about all these things and I’m in the front lines with people’s kids that are going through all kinds of crazy stuff all the time and its intense and I feel like we get a lot of feedback about our school like “What are the resources?” and some don’t even know. It’s like there’s too many options or not knowing who to ask the right questions. So of course I’m always like “your pediatrician”. It’s almost like an alternative therapy but once you say “alternative therapy” some people immediately think it’s like a chant in the woods or something type thing or you’re going to sign up for this big weird thing so it would be great to have. I think it’s great what you guys are setting out to do and succeeded. People would watch a quick video that gave just enough information to be like “oh, maybe this is something we could do.”
Interviewer: Well I think that is a great note to end it on. Unless did you have any questions?
Note-taker: Nope I think we’re good.
Interviewer: Well thank you so much for your time. You were very very helpful.