Interviewer: Here we go. Okay, so thank you for meeting with us today. So, as I’m asking you questions, it’s going to be about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the therapy that we do here. But cognitive behavioral therapy is a little bit of a mouthful so I’ll refer to it as CBT.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: And you can refer to it as CBT if you’d like. So to start, could you tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT?
Interviewee: Basically just helping with whatever issues- I mean I think of… specifically what [NAME]- you know just helping with the issues that she has.
Interviewer: Okay. When you say issues, generally what are you speaking of? Could you elaborate a little bit?
Interviewee: [NAME] has anxiety.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: She has always been a... high anxiety child so. She has anxiety issues.
Interviewer: Thank you.
Interviewer: Okay. So could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words? How would you explain what CBT is?
Interviewee: That is not an easy one for me.
Interviewer: The best you can do.
Interviewee: …Talking, a lot of talking and… discussing what is happening throughout life and how to work through whatever… whatever issues have come up throughout life basically.
Interviewer: Okay. Perfect. So when you first learned about the therapy we do here, CBT, do you remember any questions that you had about the process or just CBT in general?
Interviewee: No. Things had become so chaotic in our life at home. You know, we went to our pediatrician and… just said please help and she said go here and we said okay.
Interviewer: Okay. Did you know anything about CBT going in?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: No? Okay. So how much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet, or other people in general?
Interviewee: Nothing.
Interviewer: Nothing? Okay so you didn’t know anything. So thinking about your experience with CBT were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing or- yeah, that were confusing?
Interviewee: No. You know, we didn’t really have a lot of discussion about, you know, what was going to happen or- it was just everything had become so incredibly chaotic… it was, something has to happen and something has to change. Help us and the pediatrician said do this and we were doing this.
Interviewer: Okay. So if someone were to ask you about CBT, what would you want to tell them if they were about to start the therapy?
Interviewee: For us, it’s been- for us specifically with [NAME] because we have- we’ve done it with [NAME] and, you know, we’ve got the younger ones in therapy now also for different reasons but… for [NAME] it’s been extremely helpful. She obviously still has anxiety, I don’t think that’s something that’s ever going to change. It’s just part of her personality and who she is. But we can talk her through… panic attacks and calm her down just through talking and… but having another outlet in a different person for her to talk to… is absolutely a wonderful thing for her to have.
Interviewer: Okay. Great. So when you think about how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it, can you think of three words to describe how you felt? I know it would be kind of a weird question but…
Interviewee: I didn’t really know anything about it, at that point. So…
Interviewer: So when you first learned about it. After it was explained to you, did you have any thoughts in your mind about CBT? That could be in 3 words.
Interviewee: I don’t really know how to answer that because that was so – that was so long ago. I’m sorry.
Interviewer: Okay. That’s okay. Maybe we’ll circle back around to that question. So the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety so if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Interviewee: I feel like… for… for us, I think a lot of [NAME] had to do with external factors… I think it’s always, you know, there as a part of her personality but I think external factors exacerbate it. I think we’ve had a lot of family drama, which for her triggers that.
Interviewer: So you would say family drama is one of your external factors?
Interviewee: Correct.
Interviewer: Okay. Are there any other external factors that exacerbate her anxiety?
Interviewee: School drama, which sadly being a teenage girl, is a factor of life.
Interviewer: Yup. Okay. These are good examples. So what is important for other patients to know about how anxiety becomes an issue? So like you said external factors like school, family. What would be important for patients to know when starting CBT?
Interviewee: It has to be a very honest process. That’s one of the- that’s one of the concerns I had with [NAME], you know, because she’s very reserved and closed off, is that she wouldn’t be-she wouldn’t give it a chance and really open up to anybody. So, it has to be a very honest process.
Interviewer: So could you tell me if there is any specific skills or areas that CBT targets? It could be in your experience with your daughter.
Interviewee: You know, I don’t know because we don’t- you know, [NAME] and I- we don’t talk about her sessions. So she keeps that as her time for whatever she wants to discuss. I know she has been much more open and communicative with me since she’s started therapy which... is a wonderful thing.
Interviewer: Okay. Good. So, as a parent, what is your involvement with CBT with your daughter-daughters?
Interviewee: Well, I bring them obviously.
Interviewer: Yes.
Interviewee: But, you know, if we have any… big events that could trigger anxiety or that I think their therapist needs to know about, I will let their therapist know about those issues. But other than- other than that, that’s their time to discuss what they need to discuss.
Interviewer: For other parents, what would be useful for them to know when bringing their child in for CBT?
Interviewee: I think that… what I really liked was having that first initial meeting with the therapist to discuss overall, big picture what was going on. To kind of go over what the issues and kind of what the goals were. And check in periodically, especially when the life events happen.
Interviewer: So have you ever heard or read about any scientific articles about CBT or any scientific research?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: No. Do you think it’s something we should talk about in the videos about CBT? Do you think that would be beneficial to include scientific research?
Interviewee: Yeah I think that would be helpful. That would be good information to put out there.
Interviewer: Did you know about somebody else’s experiences with CBT? Did you know anyone else who was in the therapy as well?
Interviewee: I have personally had therapy so…
Interviewer: Oh okay.
Interviewee: I know that it’s helpful.
Interviewer: So you would say that it’s positive?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay. So as we said, we are trying to develop short videos about CBT so this part of the process is about talking about the video itself. So the setting, the characters, what they would be doing. So first we have to decide who would be in the video. So what characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: I guess that depends on your age range.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: That you’re targeting.
Interviewer: So the videos would be for parents and children so we’re not sure if we’re going to be doing a separate video for parents or a separate video for children. So if it were one video for both children and parents, what do you think the characters should be?
Interviewee: Probably a parent and child if you’re looking for a parent and child video.
Interviewer: Should there be any non-human characters like animals?
Interviewee: Probably, if you’re looking to target children.
Interviewer: Or superheroes? Kids like superheroes these days.
Interviewee: Yeah. Depending on your age- depending on the age you’re trying to target.
Interviewer: So for the children should we include a boy or a girl or?
Interviewee: To target the boy group, you’re probably going to want a boy.
Interviewer: Yeah. Or both that could be an option as well.
Interviewee: That’s true.
Interviewer: So you said parents, should we include a doctor or friends?
Interviewee: …For the target group of- I mean is the goal of the video to… you know, just help parents understand why it’s helpful?
Interviewer: So the goal of the video itself is to inform people about CBT.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Whether that’s the parents or the child.
Interviewee: Okay… Then probably a doctor. That would be helpful.
Interviewer: So now we know who would be in the video. We need to decide where they would be talking. So do you have any ideas of where they could be?
Interviewee: If you’re going to have a doctor, probably in a doctor’s office. You know, or if it’s a therapist then a therapists office.
Interviewer: So should we have anything about at home or at school? Or even somewhere unrelated.
Interviewee: …A parent, you know, like a parent-child relationship could be… at home or even in a vehicle. I know a lot of parents, you know, that’s where they spend a lot of time with their kids.
Interviewer: In the car. Going to school.
Interviewee: In the cars. Right.
Interviewer: Okay. So now that we have the setting and the characters, we have to decide what they would be talking about. So we’ve already started talking about CBT itself. So what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and get answered?
Interviewee: That I don’t know. Because I didn’t know anything about it. It was just a last-ditch effort because… [NAME] was a disaster. I… I mean [NAME] was falling apart.
Interviewer: So should they find out about CBT- about the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life? So should they talk about anxiety itself and how it becomes an issue?
Interviewee: I think that’s a great idea. I mean, I wish- I wish somebody… had, you know, said something to us before [NAME] had reached the point that she did, you know.
Interviewer: So now we get to decide how the video will look so we have a couple of examples. Here, and I’ll let you look through them. There’s 3 choices, so you can look through these and tell me what you like about them, what you don’t like about them, and what you think would be the best choice for our video-videos.
Interviewee: I don’t like the… option 2.
Interviewer: So the vector art?
Interviewee: Yeah… I don’t know that option 1 with interview style is going to do well with… kids though. Getting kids to pay attention.
Interviewer: And the third option?
Interviewee: That’s kind of comic book style which would… I think kids will like.
Interviewer: So you would say that the 3rd option is your favorite? Or…
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: How-why do you like the comic book idea. So you said you like this one the best, what makes this one the best one?
Interviewee: I think kids are… into- not so much teenagers these days but… the younger kids are into reading comic books. Books, not the actual comic book style but comic book style books. These days. So, you know, it’ll catch their attention as far as the graphics go. My 7-year-old, that’s her favorite is the comic book style books.
Interviewer: So option 3 it is. So, now that we’ve figured out how it would look and where it would be, who’s in it. What do you think the take home message of the videos should be?
Interviewee: …That it’s definitely okay to get… help and support. You know, I still think there’s some sort of stigma attached with therapy and counseling for a lot of people which is ridiculous. Not only that and you know… I don’t know maybe some of the benefits?
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: I don’t know how to work all that in but.
Interviewer: Of course. So circling back around to that 3 word question. Now that we’ve talked a bit about CBT, do you think you could- do you think you could think of 3 words that you would use to describe CBT and how you feel about it?
Interviewee: How I- excuse me, how I feel about it now or how I felt about it then?
Interviewer: I think either or, you know, you’ve experienced it with your daughter so how does it make you feel?
Interviewee: How does it make me feel? Hopeful.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Three words… Three words should not be hard to find…
Interviewer: So hopeful is a good one. So if you can’t think of 2 other ones, it’s okay. But if you could add a picture to your word, hopeful, for CBT. What would it be?
Interviewee: Just one picture.
Interviewer: Whatever you can give me.
Interviewee: Me and [NAME] sitting on the couch like this.
Interviewer: Okay. So if you can’t think of 2 other words, that’s alright. But hopeful is a good one. So that’s all the questions I have. Do you think there is anything that I missed or anything important that you wanted to talk about CBT?
Interviewee: It’s been extremely helpful for [NAME].
Interviewer: Fantastic
Interviewee: It really has.
Interviewer: Well, I think that’s it. Thank you so much for participating.