Interviewer: Alright, thanks so much for meeting with me today. I am with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists working on a project to make videos about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the therapy that’s done here at this clinic. So cognitive behavior therapy is a mouthful, so I’m going to refer to it as CBT throughout this interview and we just want to get your perspective and your general thoughts about the therapy. So to start, could you tell me what comes to mind when you think of or hear CBT?
Interviewee: CBT? Um well it is a technique used for the treatment of variety psychiatric psychological disorders where you try to use graded… graded and guided approaches to modify the responses and the anxiety associated with particular types of responses often through exposure or other sorts of I guess controlled environments and providing a safe environment for individuals to…I guess uh… become cognitively aware of their physiological responses to adverse stimuli that cause them anxiety or distress.
Interviewer: So that sounds like there’s, to sum everything up, it sounds like there are a lot of skills that are learned in CBT and that these are things are used to challenge anxiety.
Interviewee: Well I think… I mean I think the goal of it is to ultimately give individual… I guess tools whether they’re behavioral tools to help deal with you know whatever their adverse reactions are or their anxieties to teach them approaches and method that will work for them when they are not there. So I think there are combinations of both… you know guided exposures, but then also demonstrating how they can utilize those in the future.  [UNDERSCORE] it can be used alone or in combination with…You know pharmacological therapy.
Interviewer: It sounds like yeah a lot of ways and techniques that you can combat anxiety with CBT. So speaking of anxiety, one of the major goals of cognitive behavior therapy is to kind of challenge anxiety. In your own words, if someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes problematic in someone’s life, how would you response? What would your explanation of that be?
Interviewee: Well I think anxiety if it leads to an adverse effect on your welfare whether that yours ability to function in school or in work or their home life or in their relationships then I would say that the anxiety is of you know concern. I think that can be difficult to define. How does anxiety specifically lead to adverse effects? I think that it depends on the different type of anxiety and what they and what their specifically concerned about…  [UNDERSCORE] it sort of depends on, but overall how it affects the individual and their function.
Interviewer: Could you give me some examples of potentially how because I know you mention that it does varies on the anxiety. What are some ways you think that could look like?
Interviewee: Social anxiety if you are anxious about social interaction it could lead you to avoid situations where you are going to have to interact with individuals and… so that could make it difficult for you at work or more extreme cases. You know not being able to carry out normal daily functions. So I think those are one type of anxiety.
Interviewer: Sounds like it affects multiple things. You are mentioning work, school, and relationships.
Interviewee: mmhm yeah yeah. I mean it can manifest primarily in one or the other.
Interviewer: That’s where you say it varies based upon the person really.
Interviewee: I think also anxiety can often contribute to other psychiatric disorders like depression. It could coincident with other disorders… exacerbate their… manifestations.
Interviewer: So in your experience as a parent of a child who has gone through CBT, what was that experience like for you?
Interviewee: Well I mean I think overall it’s helpful in terms of… you know providing  [UNDERSCORE] … I don’t know. I guess for me I not really involved in the day to day. I only see the outcome. I would say at least for my older son certainly definitely seemed to help him and you know dealing with school and performance anxiety, you know those issues. So I think it has been positive for him. I think it has helped him gain perspective on what is going on. I think it helped to destigmatize it to a certain extent. I think it made him more self-aware of the issues and you know helped him deal with it so I think that there is some partial possible benefits.  So for me I guess it has been helpful. You know because of patient confidentiality you don’t really have much insight to what is actually happening on a day to day bases. Somewhat dependent on what the child tells you which… so I don’t have a good sense of what the individual activities he did or what… you know I have some sense they were essentially trying to you know throw curveballs and sort of disrupt you know such  [UNDERSCORE]  still function in a chaotic environment. I think there was an attempt to make it fun and enjoyable, not stressful. So I think that was… maybe something that I thought was… I kind of had a maybe bias that you know essentially it was more of a graded response and that you kind of helped people get over their level of anxiety with… elicited.  I don’t know I think I had an unpleasant association sort of with that idea that you would be sort of stressing them, and I think that’s what was most surprising to me was that it was not as stressful as um…. That my son actually seemed to enjoy it and look forward to it, rather than being negative as something to get through. That was definitely not… unexpected sort of so.
Interviewer: In what ways was that unexpected umm, like in what ways was that unexpected for you? It sounds like there was a different preconception kind of going in to thinking what it would look like.
Interviewee: I think that my preconception is essentially stress them out until the anxiety subsides and that they don’t… you know that’s a difficult process because you have induce the anxiety in order to show that’s it’s not going to cause harm or the adverse  [UNDERSCORE] are anticipated are not actually going to happen, and to me that worries me from what I think. From what I heard there was a lot of humor, a lot of ways to sort of deescalate the situation and made it a less unpleasant situation than I would have expected.
Interviewer: Is that kind of the knowledge you acquired about it there being more perhaps to CBT than just the kind of like the mechanism side of things. Is that something that would be important for other parents to know if they are contemplating whether or not to have their child go through CBT?
Interviewee: When you say the mechanisms, do you mean like neurochemical reprogramming or do you mean the mechanisms in terms of what actually happens in CBT?
Interviewer: I think more the latter where in terms of you expose yourself to a stimulus to induce anxiety and then learn that the feared outcome is not actually happening, but you mention that also there seems to be some fun involved and there were other things that made it..
Interviewee: Yeah I think that would be helpful.  I mean I think that would also depend on the skill of the practitioner. Unrelated thing, my older son wasn’t treated here a long time ago… you know had a run with CBT and it worked. It was more difficult for him. So I think it sort of depends on… it can be dependent on the skill of the practitioner or it may also be dependent on the individual child and how difficult it is to them to deal with so. Yeah, but I think understanding that it is not going to solely an unpleasant experience both for the child and the parent. I think it is helpful. Although again, I think there has to be some realistic expectations, and I mean I guess it also depends on the CBT whether how much they are going to have an expectation that the parent is going to be involved. I think often… therapy is relatively limited and you are going to have to have more outside parental involvement. So I think that can be challenging for parents. It can be difficult to them to put their child in that situation. It is unpleasant for them. So um yeah… it goes against sort of your parental instincts. So I think that can be a challenge that kind of needs to be made clear to parents. That sometimes you are going to be asked or told to do things that are not what you would think, you know. Protecting your child is not always… the best way to move forward. I mean I guess the other thing is consistency…. And um yeah providing consistency because I think that’s important and I think that’s really hard, especially when you are dealing with two different parents. I don’t know. I think that’s getting off topic… I think yeah it’s obviously very helpful to have parents understand what the processes as well as the child. What are the things that they are going to have to confront as they go forward and I don’t know?
Interviewer:  Well what would you are some of those things that they would have to confront? Like what… you were giving some good advice to kind of parent in terms of what to expect, but are there any sorts of specific types of things you’d say would be really useful kind of like as heads-up when some is first entering therapy, like what they should know of in order to be successful.
Interviewee: Well I think that the point about… that you are going to… the therapy may contradict your parental instincts. I think that’s important for parents to know. Yeah I mean I think you would have to be able to sit also with your child’s anxiety as well I guess which is similar to that. I think that it’s helpful to know that it will work, you know and I think ….  I think having something about that it at least for some cases it, it is most effective therapy. What else, umm… yeah it’s not going to be always unpleasant. That’s the other thing is sort of the kids are quite are happy too, and they make progress. So I think that’s in some cases true, depends on the child I guess. Umm yeah I don’t know. That’s everything I would probably say.
Interviewer: Ok. Are there things you wish you knew of that either it took time for you to learn or you still may not know the answer to?
Interviewee: Well I think one of the things is that it’s not like a once and done sort of thing. That’s it’s an ongoing process. That even though you may deal with one particular anxiety that you know a very similar patters can arise in other so… it’s you know there could a whack-a-mole sense sometimes so it’s not like they are going to come in and get the course of CBT and they are going to get cured and their lives are going to be perfect from then on. So I think that it’s an ongoing process that and that you may need to come back for a tune up or whatever you deal with that. So I think understanding that it’s an ongoing process and you know yeah and that it will require active participation on the part of the parents. It’s not something like you just say here take care of my kid. It’s not how it works. It’s more like a partnership.  I think kind of explaining that and sort of the expectations of the parents. It not like even with drugs I mean it’s not like ok here. I think the other things is that it’s not an either or choice.  I think a lot of people parents sort of have this preconception that’s it either drugs or CBT and it’s not. It’s doesn’t need to be an either or. I mean I don’t know the statistics on how often it is combined but you know so I think that’s important to know as well as. This is a part of…
Interviewee: He ran away? [TALKING TO PERSON NOT ON THE PHONE]
Interviewee: He ran away. Yeah
Interviewee:  Screw this
Interviewee: Oh man
Interviewee: Sorry
Interviewee: Alright, I’m heading out. Do you want me to get food on the way home?
Interviewee: Probably yeah
Interviewee: Okay. Bye
Interviewee: Bye
Interviewee: How long are you guys going to be.
Interviewer: 5 to 10 minutes at most.
Interviewee: OK not along, bye
Interviewer: So that’s actually a... well another question I had about this side of topics… if you had to describe CBT in three words, how would you describe it?
Interviewee: CBT in three words.
Interviewer: Without saying CBT…. Or maybe three alternatively three words that come to mind in general when thinking about it.
Interviewee: Controlled exposure to reduce anxiety. That’s more than three. Controlled exposures or anxiety.
Interviewer: Okay. So very much about the exposure side in terms of dealing with anxiety. It’s kind of the big thing that comes to mind when you think about it.
Interviewee: It is yeah. I mean I know that’s a component of it.
Interviewer: Ok um so I want to transition a little bit as I said at the beginning we’re making some videos. A lot of these questions are meant to guide the creation of the videos, but more explicitly I wanted to ask you know… these videos were meant to be for the general audience we potentially may have parental videos and then kid videos or it may just be that they’re both um, but from your perspective who do you think should be in these videos? Like what type of characters should be included?
Interviewee: What type of character?
Interviewer: Right so you know and thinking about this should there be non-human characters and animals. Should there be…
Interviewee: No I don’t, no. I think it depends on your audience. For young children maybe you know. Animation or whatever, but for anybody 12 or older I would think that most compelling is going to be individuals who have gone through it talk about their experiences or whatever. That would be my thought
Interviewer: Ok, so people who have gone through it. So like patients it sounds like. Patients who have experienced this.
Interviewee: mmhmm, yeah.
Interviewer: How would you feel about doctors or therapist treating them? Would you also include them in these videos?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so. I mean I think I would not start with therapist. I would start with patients and their parents.
Interviewer: So parents are important too.
Interviewee: If it’s appropriate for age. I mean I guess that questions what age you are talking about.
Interviewer: So I think just for some information it’s meant to be designed for 10 to 16 year olds which is arrange because obviously 10 year olds differ a lot from 16 year olds and there also the parents on top of it.
Interviewee: Yeah I would just make sure to have an age range of kids. I would start with the kids and their experience and then I would only you know… I guess it depends on who you are trying to convince. If you are trying to bring in kids then I would have them talk about their experiences first.
Interviewer: For the parental side, what do you think would be best for like a parent?
Interviewee: I think… yeah seeing kids and other parents is good.  [UNDERSCORE] parental experience in there as well.
Interviewer: In terms of setting, is there anything in particular that kind of stands out as a setting for the video to take place in?
Interviewee: Um well I would say more.  I would personally think it would be better if it were an individual’s home rather than clinical settings or… yeah that would be my thought. I don’t know. I’m not sure I would think of
Interviewer: I’m curious can you tell me why you lean towards like the home as opposed to a medical office or to a doctor’s office.
Interviewee: Well 99% of your time you are in the home. 99% of the time you are dealing with issues there.  [UNDERSCORE] and your looking how is your life going to be outside of there you know.  I think it’s maybe appropriate when you are talking to a clinician or whoever and say ok you know these are tools we used, these are the things we do, or whatever. We have that in a clinical setting, but I think putting people in a clinical setting turns them into patients rather than people. So I think if you want to appeal to people put in a home setting, not a clinical setting.
Interviewer: It’s not medicalized
Interviewee: Yup. They are not patients. They are people.
Interviewer: In that line uh kids especially are spending a lot of time in school. How would you feel like school being in the background?
Interviewee: I mean school would be an appropriate environment. I think sometimes though these... I think it would need to be dependent on what the specific anxiety is or specific issue that they are dealing with. I don’t think especially that age, I don’t know. Middle school for sure. I’m not sure.  I mean I think are… less likely to be open about their issues that they are dealing with so. I think it can even be anxiety producing for some individuals. I think you know to some extent it would helpful to have it in a safe at least or what would be perceived as a safe environment for children.
Interviewee: Um I don’t know…. I’m not totally fond of that idea.
Interviewer: Ok, the second is more of what you would typically see as a cartoon. Something that you see, there are a lot of YouTube videos, instructional videos. That type of style.
Interviewee: Interesting. I don’t know I mean I guess I’m…. I don’t know. I guess I’m not necessarily overly excited about the idea of um… I don’t know potentially maybe the vector art. I don’t know I guess I’m just… I can understand that. I just don’t understand why you need the other things rather than just having individuals, children talk about it.
Interviewer: So it sounds like more of just kind of like doing general filming without having special effects. Do you think it’s sufficient?
Interviewee: I don’t know. It certainly would be my preference.
Interviewer: It would be your preference. Okay.
Interviewee: I mean if I’m looking at stuff. I think I just fine it. I don’t know distracting.
Interviewer: ok, ummm what should the take home message of the videos be? Like if there was one thing to really emphasize.
Interviewee: Well I think the thing to take home is that it works and that it takes time…. You are not going to lose anything from trying. It is a collaboration between individual and parents and the you know the therapist. It’s not going to work out without all three being involved.
Interviewer: Ok! Is there anything you want to add in terms of wrapping up? Any last thing you think is important for us to know…
Interviewee: I don’t think I’m an average... I don’t think I’m uh… I think I have a larger role. I may know more than what most parents will know so I think that I have a skewed perspective.
Interviewer: There is obviously going to be varying levels of parents and they come and go and it’s important getting all those different perspectives. Thanks so much for talking. I appreciate it.