Interviewer: Thanks so much for meeting with me today. I’m part of research team that’s looking at Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, it’s the therapy that we do here at this clinic. With this project, we want to create some short educational videos talking about cognitive behavioral therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful, so I’m just going to refer to it as CBT throughout the video. Okay? So let’s start. Can you just kind of tell me what goes through your mind when you think about CBT?
Interviewee: Sorry we were joking about the stuff they sell at the gas station… So helping people to learn to recognize wrong thinking… or learning in a way to manage the way you think.
Interviewer: So learning ways to manage how you think. So it sounds like there’s definitely a lot of… a lot of it is about thoughts, would you say?
Interviewee: Yes. I would say yes.
Interviewer: When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, did you have any questions about what it looked like?
Interviewee: I did not. I mean I had heard of it before.
Interviewer: Okay. From where had you heard it from before?
Interviewee: When I first started hearing about it, it was after the Gulf War. It developed as a way to kind of help you deal with stress after post-traumatic stress and such. I’ve known others who have kind of used it as a way of therapy.
Interviewer: Okay, so have you had conversations with other people about CBT?
Interviewee: A little bit, yes.
Interviewer: What information from them did you receive, about this treatment?
Interviewee: Not a whole lot other than the basic idea that it’s kind of helping a person recognize maybe when they’re not thinking correctly or helping recognizing experiencing symptoms that may be not quite right, like anxiety- you learn to recognize the symptoms of anxiety and learn how to manage those a little better.
Interviewer: If someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, how would you respond to that, from what you’ve learned from this process?
Interviewee: High levels of anxiety can definitely hinder your ability to interact with others, or maybe overreact to help what people say to you. So it can definitely hinder your ability to fully function.
Interviewer: What do you think is important for other patients to know about CBT?
Interviewee: It’s not painful.
Interviewer: Can you elaborate more on that?
Interviewee: I’m not super familiar on how the therapy goes on that, but what I understand is it is something that will help you to understand yourself better.
Interviewer: So are you saying you’re not as familiar with maybe the mechanisms?
Interviewee: Yeah, I’m not really familiar with the mechanisms of how it’s done.
Interviewer: Right. Are there things you wish you knew, like in terms of how CBT operates, do you wish you had more knowledge on that?
Interviewee: I guess so, yeah. It would probably be useful if I knew more about how it works. Maybe how a typical session might run.
Interviewer: Okay so like the structure of a normal session, of what that looks like. You think that would be useful information for other people to see as well?
Interviewee: I do.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who’s just starting CBT? Is there any piece of advice you would give them, whether it be someone who’s going in themselves or… we’ll just start with that- someone going in for themselves.
Interviewee: I definitely believe mental health is very important, just generally. If you were sick, physically sick, I mean you wouldn’t think much about going to the doctor, and they give you something to try- I mean we would try pretty much anything that they would suggest if we thought it would help. So CBT, from what I understand is something that has been successful. You know, people have had success in improving their mental health, so I would highly recommend trying it.
Interviewer: In terms of you’ve heard it’s successful, have you encountered anything from a scientific perspective? Have you encountered scientific articles or anything like that?
Interviewee: No, I have not. Nothing deeply scientifical.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell parents, like if there was a parent of a child who was going to go into CBT? What would you want them to know?
Interviewee: I would think for me as a parent, sometimes it’s a little hard for me to understand what exactly is going on in the therapy, and I think sometimes you expect… not expect… I mean you could have really fast results, but I think you have to understand there’s a gradual process that does take time to go through, for a patient to work through.
Interviewer: So it’s not necessarily an instant thing? As nice as that would be?
Interviewee: Right. It would be nice. I don’t know if adults, but it was proved that kids, it seems takes a while for kids to kind of get that relationship with a therapist. It would be nice if we were all really truthful when we went to the doctor. That was one of my favorite shows that I used to watch was Doctor House. Everybody lies- I hope that’s not true. I suspect for kids maybe it’s not that easy to be fully truthful in the beginning.
Interviewer: If you had to think of or say three words that describe CBT to you, or three words that come to you head when you think of CBT, what would those words be?
Interviewee: Three words, okay. So it’d be like “Develop better habits.”
Interviewer: [UNDERSCORE] talked about earlier how you’re identifying things that may not be the most useful for yourself
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Going briefly back to other people, I know that you said you know other people that have gone through CBT. Do you know if their experience was a positive one? Negative?
Interviewee: I know one person who tried it, and he didn’t really give it enough time. It was a relative, and it was pretty exciting when I heard about it, but it was something that he didn’t try for very long. These things take time.
Interviewer: Yeah that’s kind of going with what you said earlier, right? It’s not necessarily a quick fix. It’s going to take some time.
Interviewee: Yeah. Probably not going in once and done kind of a thing.
Interviewer: Right, definitely. Could you tell me a little bit about the... you touched on this a little briefly… about challenging negative thoughts… what are some other areas that CBT targets? What skills do you develop from it?
Interviewee: Not just challenging negative thoughts, but also, I think was part of it, recognizing maybe when you are more, I think anxiety… when you are feeling moments of anxiety, if you can recognize that, then you can draw from things you learned in CBT to help you manage it better.
Interviewer: So a little bit like a toolkit.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Or almost like exercising a little bit, build up your strength.
Interviewer: Right. What was the role of feelings in CBT, would you say?
Interviewee: Feelings, emotions… I don’t know… I’m not sure about that.
Interviewer: How about like behaviors or actions?
Interviewee: Behaviors is probably more like to, you react- you behave in a certain way. Maybe you’re in a crowd and you don’t want to participate or whatever the situation is, maybe in that type of therapy you might learn to recognize that those situations are not… recognize what’s happening in the situation and realize it’s something you can improve or change.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Cool. Awesome. So I’m just going to turn to more of the video side of things. So thinking about these videos there’s kind of a twofold thing, where on one hand they want to make videos for kids, but we’re also contemplating the use of creating videos for parents. So when you answer these questions, feel free to think about both sides of things, like what you think would be useful. So, first in terms of the who: if we’re making videos like this, who do you think should be starring in these videos?
Interviewee: Who would be starring in the videos… let’s see… I see a lot of those animals here. I never thought about that. We tend to see things like putting famous people on lately and doing little video bits that you see on TV for mental health… spokespersons. Sometimes I think that helps because it helps bring those topics out and make them seem a little more normal. I’ve also seen videos where they use maybe people who had gone through the therapy, and as a result of that had improved. Those were also good so they can explain how it helped them. I don’t know if you’re thinking about live action videos…
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah! It’s something we’ll get to.
Interviewee: Yeah or animation or cartoons is what we started on here, and so maybe different as an adult, I’d probably relate to the non-cartoons better, but I’d think children could relate to better to something like a cartoon.
Interviewer: Looking at the characters, so what would you say would be important for the parent? [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewee: From a parent, we’re looking for answers. We’re looking for ways to help our children. And from a parent’s perspective, a video, they might relate more to adult type characters, and maybe they’ll relate to how they’ll help their family or help them.
Interviewer: How would you feel about there being doctors, for instance?
Interviewee: Doctors… I don’t know… that’s a good question on that. I’m used to seeing on TV… you know, those TV doctors that are usually not real, so I’m not sure if I’d relate well to that or not. I would probably relate more if it was like a parent or somebody from that level, someone more relatable.
Interviewer: That makes sense. So transitioning a little bit to the setting, what would be some good settings that we could have the video in?
Interviewee: I guess maybe more of a reenactment. Maybe you might start with a scene where somebody is encountering some kind of mental health challenge, and maybe that’s the starting point so you can identify what type of challenges people would have and then transition into entering therapy. I don’t know how long this video is going to be… transitioning into what kind of benefits you can bring through therapy or CBT and then finally having the final result of the miraculous cure- something to see the benefit out of it.
Interviewer: Sounds like showing the whole process- the problem to how it gets resolved.
Interviewee: Right. So maybe in the beginning you might relate to the person you’re watching because you’re saying, “Okay I can relate to that scenario.” Then maybe understand a little bit about how the process helped. You probably want to do this in like 30 seconds, right?
Interviewer: That, we’re still deciding.
Interviewee: Our attention span probably isn’t that long.
Interviewer: Well I guess from your perspective, how long do you think a video like this would be, like at what point are you saying, “This is too long.”
Interviewee: I was thinking about that. It’s almost like you’d want a short part of it to get people’s attention then maybe break off into a more detailed discussion. Could almost see that, like there’s some kind of carton video then it breaks off into the doctor coming in talking a little bit about what is happening, what the benefits would be, then maybe back into a video… might help to at least get somebody’s attention in the beginning.
Interviewer: So multi-segmented, perhaps? Help them pay attention.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: Just in terms of specific locations, would you think that showing things at home would be relevant or important?
Interviewee: Yeah there’s a lot of possible scenarios for kids. There’s school where you’re maybe having peer pressures that you encounter, and of course home life is always a challenge for us all, isn’t it? So, because there’s so many things you could treat with CBT, I’m not quite sure… it’d be hard to pick one.
Interviewer: What about like the therapist’s office?
Interviewee: Therapist’s office… probably could, just to get people… you know, when I grew up, when I was a kid someone going to the therapist’s office was kind of stigmatizing. At least from my perspective, I’m past that, but maybe not everybody is.
Interviewer: How would you address the issue of stigma, especially for parents who are from an era where, as you said, it was more stigmatized?
Interviewee: People like my age, I’m talking to my parents, that age particularly, their response now is, “We wish we knew those things back then.” Their main response is, “We didn’t even know there was options out there for improving mental health.”  I think it’s important if you’re looking at it as being something more stigmatizing now or you don’t want your neighbors to know that you’re going, years later it’s definitely something you’d look back on and say, “I wish I had taken those steps at that time.”
Interviewer: So sounds like growing up  [UNDERSCORE] the opportunity is valuable.
Interviewee: Right. So you may not recognize it on the front end, but you will definitely see it on the back end.
Interviewer: So we touched a little bit on this piece, about what they should talk about, but like further going into that, what types of questions should be asked or answers should be had?
Interviewee: Somebody who’s looking at this… hmm… I’m not sure about that. I’d say I’m not sure about that.
Interviewer: Should there be an explanation perhaps of how anxiety becomes a problem? Is that something that would be useful?
Interviewee: Yeah I think… or that there’s help out there to improve those things. It’s not something that you should just… it’s not necessarily something that you can just deal with on your own. You might need some help.
Interviewer: So like recognizing it as an issue.
Interviewee: Right, like if you want to be a professional football player, you’re probably going to recognize you need training, you need coaches; there’s a lot of things you can do that can help you. Maybe there’s some analogy there too… you know, it’s like in therapy can help you… there’s somebody there… you can definitely improve what you’re doing. There’s definitely probably more sports analogies you can give for kids, there might be other analogies kids or parents could relate to that scenario where you wouldn’t think twice about getting help. If I wanted to learn tennis I would certainly want to hire a teacher rather than sit out there by myself trying to figure it out. So, in this case here, going into a therapist or somebody who can help you figure these things out a lot easier than trial and error.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Right, right. How about discussing how it’s worked for others? I think you kind of mentioned that a little bit earlier. At least in your opinion, you saw that it’s been effective. Do you think that’s worth discussing?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. I think it’s been effective, just kind of watching it in my family, and yeah- I think so. When it came out that was the big excitement, CBT- there was a method that could perhaps give a lot faster improvements than the other forms of therapy did before that. That was the appeal I heard about originally, “Wow, there’s something that actually might have noticeable benefits that doesn’t take 10 years of laying on a couch,” and there’s no laying on a couch, as far as I know, too.
Interviewer: Should there be discussion about exposures and how they work?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so. I think it’s something people can quickly understand how that would work, like you’re having trouble with something- I talk about anxieties, that’s one I’m more familiar with- and the idea of exposing yourself gradually to that. Eventually you can be exposed to higher and higher levels.
Interviewer: What about from a parent perspective? What types of things should be discussed on what is helpful for parents to do versus what’s not helpful for parents to do?
Interviewee: I had this discussion before with a therapist, and myself as a parent kind of frustrated like, “I don’t know what to do,” is where a kind of found myself is like yeah, I want to help my children, but I can’t figure out how to do it, and the one answer I got back that I liked was, “Coming here, that was a good idea.” You find yourself maybe not… there’s help out there, let’s put it that way. Definitely you want to be involved as a parent. You don’t just want to drop your kids off and pick them up at the end of therapy.
Interviewer: So it sounds like involvement’s important, actually being a figure and being a part of the team.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: Awesome. So moving on to how it’s going to look, so we’re still toying with the idea. We do have this right here has 3 different options of potential kind of  [UNDERSCORE]. So you can take a second and we’ll go over that, and I’m just curious of what your impressions of those 3 options are, like if there’s one that particularly stands out to you or you really hate one. There aren’t necessarily the only things. These are heavy contenders, basically.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, not sure quite what I get from the one in the middle. Kind of getting this idea of something kind of beyond what’s inside of you. You want to think about too much math on the right. The one in the middle is a little cleaner I guess is kind of my first thought looking at it. The one on the left has got a lot going on there in terms of the picture.
Interviewer: [UNDERSCORE] variation on the line art side of things.
Interviewee: right, on the side of it on that, the people are all about the same
Interviewer: How about on the second page I think transitions a little bit more to a cartoony style.   [UNDERSCORE] kids, but what are your thoughts kind of on that style?
Interviewee: I don’t know, I’m kind of big on the carton. Maybe the one in the middle. Maybe part of it is it’s easier to relate yourself to a cartoon than it is to… it’s hard to get a generic looking person. It’s a little harder to relate to a person when you’re looking at a picture. The cartoons, I think, have the advantage  [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewer: Right. How about for like a parent video? How do you feel about doing a cartoony style like option 2?
Interviewee: Parents are different, right. For me, I grew up watching cartoons Saturday morning, so that was also my perspective on it, and I watch a few more now because they’re a little more mainstream, but um, I think they could relate.