Interviewer: Again, I just wanted to thank you for participating in the research, and thank you for being with us today. Of course, you know what the CARTOONS study is about. Basically, we are creating educational videos describing what cognitive behavioral therapy is, it’s the kind of therapy that your child is receiving here, and cognitive behavioral therapy is so long, it’s such a tongue twister to really say, we’re going to be saying CBT, just to help out real quick with that. So to start out, please tell me what comes to mind when you first think about CBT? There’s no right answer.
Interviewee: As the parent of the child in it?
Interviewer: Yeah, from your perspective. From what you know. I’m sure you’ve sat in on some sessions or he has homework and stuff like that, so just tell us, from your perspective, there’s no right or wrong answer, what you think CBT is.
Interviewee: Having help from somebody else to work through whatever issues you’re facing.
Interviewer: When you sat in on the session, do you remember a time where you were explained to exactly what the treatment would look like or anything like that with CBT?
Interviewee: Well, what goals they were going to work on, yes, not really in what way.
Interviewer: Okay. Could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words, how would you explain what CBT is, if someone were to ask you?
Interviewee: I don’t know a lot of specifics. It’s just good to have a professional, someone who’s not directly involved in the situation. They tend to give more worth to somebody else’s opinion, the child does, versus just mom or dad telling them what to do.
Interviewer: When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what questions you had for the therapist?
Interviewee: Not really. We had an experience previously where he basically refused to even speak. So it was like, “How was that going to work? How do you handle that?”
Interviewer: How do you handle a child not speaking?
Interviewee: Yes. He’s literally spent lots of sessions not saying a word.
Interviewer: Okay. So that was a question that you had.
Interviewee: Yes, like how do you handle that? Here, I didn’t have anything specific.
Interviewer: Other than that, that was the major question, but other than that, you didn’t have any other questions?
Interviewee: Yep.
Interviewer: Okay. What did you want to know about CBT when you first started sessions here?
Interviewee: I can’t think of anything specific, just how it will happen, how we can help him, what to work on each week.
Interviewer: How much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet, or other people before coming here?
Interviewee: Therapy in general.
Interviewer: Tell me more.
Interviewee: Just experience- his older brother is autistic and has generalized anxiety so we’re going through that with him, as well as group therapy for social skills training. My mother went to therapy for years, decades, so I just grew to her experience. I didn’t really have any expectations, just getting help.
Interviewer: Did all or any of your experiences, or what you knew about CBT match your experiences here?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: How so?
Interviewee: It’s been going well for him, definitely making progress. One step at a time.
Interviewer: Thinking about your experience, were there any parts of therapy that were confusing?
Interviewee: I wouldn’t say so, no. it’s made sense. It can be slow going, obviously, but that’s to be expected.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who’s about to start CBT?
Interviewee: Stick with it. It’ll take time. You get out of it what you put into it- which is what I work with him on, because if he’s not saying a word then it’s just a waste of time. So yeah, just stick with it, you’ll see improvement, and you need to participate to help it work.
Interviewer: Think of 3 words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it. What would those words be?
Interviewee: Hope. Progress. Work.
Interviewer: Hope, progress, and work.
Interviewee: You got to work at it.
Interviewer: Okay. If you were to add a picture to each of these words: hope, progress, and work, if you were to add a picture to each of these words, what would it be?
Interviewee: Work I guess would just be like a notebook or something, like just thoughts journaling. Progress… just like a graphic that I would attach to it?
Interviewer: Mhm.
Interviewee: Like a reward, like a ribbon or something… reaching goals. Hope… sun? Something to look forward to. Happy.
Interviewer: So you [UNDERSCORE] the sun with happiness?
Interviewee: Yeah. Bright.
Interviewer: Okay so tell me a bit about why you chose each picture with each word. So you had journaling for work. So what was that for?
Interviewee: The thought that has to go into it. The whole thing of you’re going to get out of it what you put into it.  [UNDERSCORE] the progress for him, we break down the small goals and reward him as he reaches them. So it’s sort of like a ribbon, a generic, he doesn’t get a ribbon, but it’s kind of like a generic thing for meeting a goal. Then the hope I guess was just something kind of seen as positive or happy- the sun or smiley face or something.
Interviewer: Sounds good. The goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety overall, and if someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Interviewee: Even when things are going well, their anxiety can mess it up. My eldest child says that he’s stressed when he’s not stressed, because he thinks he should be. Like if things are going well, he’s worried he’s missed something. Yeah, so when things are going well or going right, then they’re anxious that there’s something else that they’re missing.
Interviewer: So based off that, what do you think is important for other patients to know about anxiety and CBT?
Interviewee: Just in general… that it can be all encompassing, that it takes commitment, time. It’s not just a cure and it goes away. You learn coping strategies and you still work on it.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: Not specifically that I know of, I can make a guess.
Interviewer: Try your best.
Interviewee: We talk a lot about taking the hardship of it, being involved in it himself. [UNDERSCORE] phase hardship a lot.
Interviewer: What about thoughts? Or feelings or actions? Do you feel that CBT targets this area? How you heard anything about that in sessions?
Interviewee: They bring me in at the end, and sometimes he has something to say specifically. [UNDERSCORE] that it’s hard to address something, if we can put it into words, talking through it all.
Interviewer: Are there any questions that you wish you’d asked before you started the CBT sessions?
Interviewee: Not that I can think of. Not that I remember.
Interviewer: What was your involvement in CBT? So, what does your involvement look like within the sessions when you come in here?
Interviewee: He goes pretty much weekly. Depending on his session, they want us both there first. Sometimes it’s just him then they bring me in for my view as well. Sometimes it matches, sometimes it does not. So they want to make sure we’re on the same track. We review what they had been working on for the week. They give him homework, tasks to complete. Just being a part of that, one, because I can give input to how  [UNDERSCORE] and two, I’m hearing about what they’re saying. Otherwise, he just leaves and he says he doesn’t know.
Interviewer: So it’s helpful, sounds like.
Interviewee: Yes. Because then I can say, “Well what did they same about that?” and he can remember what she said, because I heard it too. It’s not bad. It’s just being a tween child and some of it is that there’s a lot of information to take in.
Interviewer: So, knowing that, what do you think would be useful for other parents to know, from your experiences?
Interviewee: Just making sure that you’re open about it all. Put your cards on the table kind of thing. If they don’t have the whole picture, it’s hard to make any progress.
Interviewer: So what do you think parents also need to know about sessions and how they work and
Interviewee: That you will be involved with it as well, it’s not just your child; it’s a team effort.
Interviewer: That’s good. Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Interviewee: Not that I can think of.
Interviewer: Okay so if not, do you believe it’s something we should talk about in the videos that we are going to be constructing?
Interviewer: Seeing that we’re talking about creating educational videos, well first before I even show you the different layouts we have of different themes, we wanted to know, based off your thoughts or opinions, we need to decide who will be in the videos. So what characters do you think we should include in the videos? Should there be any nonhuman characters such as animals, superheroes, or even children? Should we include a boy or girl? So, just getting a good handle of what you believe, as far as character wise, of what should be in the videos.
Interviewee: I would stick with people versus animals or characters.
Interviewer: Okay so superheroes would be….? Is that people?
Interviewee: I would just do regular people. Personally, but I’m not a professional so I don’t know.
Interviewer: No it’s all about your… we just want to gather information so there’s no right or wrong answer.
Interviewee: Just people. Anybody can relate to people.
Interviewer: People. Okay so when you say people, are we talking about children, parents, friends, doctors?
Interviewee: Yeah, like the doctor, the parents, the patient itself- the child.
Interviewer: Okay so you’re thinking patient, doctor, parents, and families.
Interviewee: Yeah… the office and staff.
Interviewer: Should we include a boy or girl? Both?
Interviewee: Either. Both.
Interviewer: Either or okay. So now that we have an idea of the characters you’d want and some of the videos we’d develop, we need to decide where they talk, so what kind of setting? Would it be home or school, doctor’s office kind of setting, or maybe outside at the park? Which one of those do you think? Or maybe a combination of those?
Interviewee: I would say probably home and office.
Interviewer: Home and office. The doctor’s office?
Interviewee: Depending upon the part or what viewpoint is coming across. Like, whatever setting it happens in.
Interviewer: Okay, and why is that that you’re thinking of the home and doctor’s office?
Interviewee: Just because that’s where it typically would be discussed in the first place.
Interviewer: Okay. So it’s familiar is what you’re saying?
Interviewee: Yes, like a doctor sent us to therapy, or we talked about it at home as a family. A type of setting that it’s already in.
Interviewer: Gotcha. Alright, so now that we know the who and the where, let’s talk about what, like what should they talk about? So what questions about CBT, we kind of already talked about this, if you had any questions, but if you could think of anything for the videos, what questions about CBT do you think the characters need to ask and/ or answer within the video?
Interviewee: Well depending on how young the audience is  [UNDERSCORE], if it’s going to hurt; if it’s anything physical, because when you think of a doctor, you think more of a regular, general doctor. How long something might take. How long the session might be. Just about the confidentiality part- that it’s a safe place to say anything. I can’t think of anything else.
Interviewer: So do you think we should include how CBT, the explanation of how anxiety can become a problem in someone’s life, and do you think that should be discussed in the video as well?
Interviewee: Yeah. The why, the general why you should go to  [UNDERSCORE] how it can help, yes.
Interviewer: Okay. Should we ask how it has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: If it has worked?
Interviewer: Yeah. How or if it has worked for other kids.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Should we ask about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Maybe? In the first video?  [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewer: There’s no right or wrong answer it’s based upon parents’ perspective. What you feel you would’ve wanted to see.
Interviewee: Probably not initially.
Interviewer: Not initially. Okay. Should we ask about what parents can or can’t do to help?
Interviewee: Yes. Definitely.
Interviewer: Why would you say definitely?
Interviewee: Because that’s always helpful. Suggestions and expectations.
Interviewer: Good to know. So now we’re going to talk about the how. So how the video will look like. We have 3 options of artistic styles. 1 being the line art option, 2 being vector art, and 3 being the comic art blended with live action, and so I’ll give you a second to look through them and have some questions for you later. You can let me know when you’ve looked through them and understand them- the concept of all three of them.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Okay so before we get started on that, I have to ask you: are there any cartoons or animated movies that you personally like? Try to list them off, what are some of them?
Interviewee: Sure. Well we’re a big animation fam so of course, Disney and Pixar. We actually have a lot of anime as well. Anything from Pokémon to Avatar.
Interviewer: So you’re big on animation?
Interviewee: Yeah. Our family is, yeah.
Interviewer: So all of the above?
Interviewee: Pretty much.
Interviewer: Okay so based on the styles you see, the three options, which one would you choose? Which one do you like the most, more so?
Interviewee: Personally? Or which one do I think should be used in a video for kids?
Interviewer: Personally.
Interviewee: Personally, I like line art best of these three.
Interviewer: Line art. Why does it appeal to you the most?
Interviewee: Simplified. Gets the point across. It’s just less distracting.
Interviewer: Okay, so it’s clear and concise. It sounds like you had two options…
Interviewee: Vector art would be the second.
Interviewer: Vector art would be your second option? Okay, so it sounds like you had two options: you had a personal option and one for children if you could choose that one. So which one would you choose for children if you had the option?
Interviewee: They’d probably take better to vector art.
Interviewer: Okay and why do you think that is?
Interviewee: It’s more common to what they see. They don’t see a lot of the line art. The doodles and stuff like that.
Interviewer: Okay, that’s good to know. What do you think the take home messages from the video should be?
Interviewee: Trying to get them excited about coming. It has to be honest, that it’s not easy, like there’s going to be work to it, but it’s all worth it to give it a try.
Interviewer: Sounds good, and is there anything you feel like I missed? Anything important that I haven’t asked about that you feel we need to take into account?
Interviewee: I don’t think so. I mentioned the whole confidentiality part, because kids are often afraid to say something. I can’t think of anything else.
Interviewer: Okay, well that’s it. After this…