Interviewer: Alright so just to start, can you tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT or cognitive behavioral therapy- the therapy that we talked about?
Interviewee: What comes to mind would be real-time applicable practicing different scenarios that base some sort of psychological- internal thing that’s going on with a person but try to simulate and actively address but it feels like, what it looks like and then continuing to sort of arming someone with tools so that they’re able to get used to that sort of feeling and how to handle themselves when they’re potentially experiencing that for real.
Interviewer: Okay.
So really simulating a real life experience and giving them tools for helping with that.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay.
Sounds like you do know quite a bit about CBT, have some experience.
Could you kind of tell me what you do know about CBT in general?
Or how would you explain it to someone else?
If it’s any different from what you said.
Interviewee: Sort of- I feel like it’s like thinking about, sort of that metacognition where you’re thinking about your thinking.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: Normally you aren’t asked to do that unless it’s sort of causing some sort of distress to one’s self to think about what you’re thinking with certain things.
I lost my train of thought…
Interviewer: You were talking about metacognition and thinking about thinking when normally you wouldn’t do that.
Interviewee: What was your question now?
Interviewer: Oh, my question was just how would you explain CBT to someone else?
Interviewee: Okay.
Yeah it would be thinking about your thinking and then sort of like almost working backwards to try to feel like, okay this is, you know, this is the end of result of something and backtracking to think what was it that got me here or what was I doing or what patterns or habits am I seeing that are continually arriving me at this result.
I always feel like you can pinpoint a result but then trying to figure out what got us here or why are we here and then sort of working backwards from that and realizing the thought process that kind of preceded wherever you are right now.
That you don’t want to be.
Interviewer: Right so realizing this is the result…
Interviewee: A thought process that happened and kind of thinking about okay recognizing where does this start?
What was the beginning of this?
If you can recognize that start, kind of trying to- you’re gaining tools that will be able to- you can, when you find yourself in that process or anywhere in there realizing hey I’m familiar with this.
I kind of know where this is going to go and trying to stop the cycle or sort of divert into something else so you don’t end up in that same spot again.
I don’t know if I’m making any sense right now.
If I could draw a picture, yeah I’m such a visual person about it.
But to me that’s what it is to sort of- realizing that there are patterns that are happening and you’re uncomfortable with and that are in some way you would seek this sort of therapy out by because you recognize that you’re not happy or you’re uncomfortable or that in life things are limited for you because of this thing that is happening over and over but then recognizing, like backtracking and recognizing the signals of it’s coming.
So that you can try to prevent continuing that spiral or being in that situation or frame of mind again over and over.
Interviewer: So there’s, you know, those thoughts having something to help you with preventing it from spiraling.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay.
So kind of, either when you came here or for summer camp.
Was summer camp before you came here or did you come here first?
Interviewee: Here first.