Speaker: Yeah. It’s just- but it’s almost making things too hard or too whatever, you know.
Trying to think of things.
It doesn’t have to be so complicated like it’s actually a pretty simple step one, step two.
It’s just a process and can be a fairly short process.
Interviewer: Okay.
Speaker: Yeah.
I would almost say lather, rinse, repeat.
It’s literally-that’s what your shampoo says- that’s what women shampoo says maybe guy’s shampoo – everyone’s shampoo probably says the same thing.
It’s shampoo.
But like…
Interviewer: So I heard obvious, simple, and what was the third one?
Speaker: Yeah.
I don’t know I guess quick.
Interviewer: Quick?
Speaker: We could do that.
Interviewer: Okay.
So obvious, simple, and quick.
They don’t have to be- this is kind of just how you felt.
Speaker: I know.
Marketing ads, that was my previous job.
All this advertising and graphic design that’s what I always wanted.
I wanted it to be something cheesy like it’s all brain but it’s a no brainer.
You know?
Type situation.
Interviewer: Right, that makes sense.
That’s kind of a fun tagline.
Okay so for those three words that we did come up with and we can do another one for the “it’s all”- what was it?
It’s all brain but a no brainer.
Are there any visuals that you think that would be or good pictures that you think would accompany those pictures?
Just kind of thinking from a video perspective sometimes it’s nice to put pictures.
And it can be one for each one or it could be one for as a group.
Speaker: Yeah… I’m like flat lined now.
I don’t know- I can’t.
I mean like…
Interviewer: That’s okay.
Speaker: Can you rephrase you question?
Interviewer: Yeah!
I’ll try to chop it up a little bit.
So if we were to put obvious as a word, what kind of image comes to mind?
What kind of picture?
Speaker: I don’t have any, which is so funny.
Interviewer: Nothing?
Okay.
Speaker: There is no picture.
Interviewer: That’s okay.
Speaker: Static, there’s just static.
Interviewer: Okay, what about- does anything come to mind for simple?
Speaker: No.
Interviewer: What about quick?
Speaker: A stopwatch?
That’s the only thing that pops into my mind.
Interviewer: Okay, a stopwatch?
Okay and what about it’s all brain but it’s a no brainer?
Just wondering if there is any image that you can think of that associates with that.
Speaker: Yeah like all comedy things.
Interviewer: Just something funny?
Speaker: Yeah, I can almost see taking out your, and not in a gory way, taking your brain out of your head and rocking it, giving it a hug, you know, just taking care of yourself kind of in a way.
Just all cheesy things.
Just want to bedazzle it, I don’t know.
Interviewer: Cheesy is fine.
Speaker: That’s what you get right now.
That’s what I’m bringing.
Interviewer: That’s okay.
That’s alright.
Alright, so were going to talk about the videos and then some of the fun part of kind of how they could look.
So, I’ll kind of go through a few questions regarding that and then I have some templates for you to look at.
Speaker: Okay.
Interviewer: Kind of what your thoughts are so first thing we need to do is decide who would be in the videos.
What kind of characters do you think we should include?
Speaker: I almost feel like if its kid based, I would almost feel like it would be not… you’re doing a cartoon.
Didn’t you say you’re doing a cartoon so it’s going to be animated?
Interviewer: There- we’re not entirely sure but we are- I think the idea is animated.
Speaker: I think for adults would be more drawn to, you know, actual people.
But kids are used to everything animated.
Interviewer: So for kids maybe something animated but for adults maybe live action or real people, I guess.
For lack of a better word.
Speaker: Yeah.
Interviewer: So not animated?
Speaker: Maybe.