Interviewer: No, should the characters in the videos discuss how exposures work so… basically just how the activities that you’re asking typically engage in CBT… should they ask that?
Speaker: I think yes, absolutely. Again, I mentioned it earlier that yes, I would kind of want to know, “how does therapy work? What is it you’re going to be doing? Are we just sitting down and talking across the couch like a psychiatrist? Or are we doing interactive type things or active type things with other people as a way to deal with the anxiety?” So yeah, I would definitely try to get as much information out there as possible because you’re going to put people at ease if they know something… hopefully. 
Interviewer: Alright and should the characters in the video ask about what parents can and can’t do to help?
Speaker: I would say yes, but again, this kind of depends on are you just going to make one video that’s going to address, like I was talking about, you can have a video that addresses a kid a parent can obviously watch that, but you could also have a video that maybe is inclusive to the parents prior to them coming here that does tell them what they should be expected, or what they should be expecting to see, and what they should be expecting to do to help their kid. Yeah, I don’t see a problem doing that, but again, that would be having a therapist obviously talking to the parents, “Mom, dad, here’s what to expect. Here’s what’s going to happen. This is what we need you to do to really help this therapy take hold and work.”
Interviewer: Sounds good. So now we’ve talked about who will be in the video, where they will talk, what they will talk about. Let’s talk about how the video would look like, and that’s when I bring these into play. But before I do that, let me ask you, are there any cartoons or animated videos or movies that you like, that catches your interest… your favorite ones to watch?
Speaker: Animated… you did say animated…
Interviewer: Yeah, cartoons or animated movies.
Speaker: I haven’t watched a cartoon in years. Okay, “How to Train My Dragon.”
Interviewer: Okay, is that a movie?
Speaker: Yeah there’s 3 or 4 now, and I don’t believe I’ve actually seen them. I haven’t seen the last one. The characters I think appeal to a certain age group… more of a younger set than high school. I don’t think you’re really seeing high school kids into animation. I think they’re more into the Marvel, DC Comics type stuff. But yeah, the reason I bring up that particular movie is because you’ve got a character in there who has, who’s missing a leg who was a kid who… he’s the kid in the village who’s the son of the chief of the village and he’s a total wimp. I mean he looks like the wimpy kid, and this is a Viking village, okay. So the dad is this huge character, and he’s this peg legged little nobody, and he ends up getting to be friends with a dragon, learns how to fly the dragon, and so on. So in a way, there’s some issues in this movie that can be looked at as being like anxiety. So you may be able to have some relations there, but it’s a movie/ series that’s done pretty well, I think. So with a younger set, in terms of kids, yeah they may find having characters like that talking about certain things they would understand. But again, with high school kids? If you talk to high school kids… I’ll tell you right now, my kids spend more time looking on YouTube looking at stuff and half the time I’m like, “What are you guys looking at?” It’s the weirdest crap… I mean you’re listening to a guy talk about some game and you’re just sitting there listening to him talk about a game. How to do this, how to do that. I don’t know if you know. I don’t get it at all.