Interviewer: Well were there, in terms of this experience um have there, I know you are on different levels in terms of how long your child has been on CBT, but has there been anything confusing or anything that been like you weren’t expecting?
Speaker: I expected to learn a lot of new things, you know expected, I kind of expected the unexpected, I guess.
Um maybe because I just wasn’t familiar with it and just kind of did the basic in looking into it, but no I guess I really can’t say anything that was perfectly unexpected not yet, we still little ways to go.
Speaker: Nothing so unexpected, I just know there is a lot frustrating I feel sometimes um that I, I don’t, I’m sure other parents feel the same way, I don’t know but… it it is wearing.
It can wear on you, you know.
Interviewer: Are those things, um I’m sorry.
Speaker: No, no it’s ok
Interviewer: I was gonna say are those um for future parents coming in, bringing in their children for CBT like what you would want say to do them about this experience like what to expect?...
Like what things do you, alternatively, what things do you wish ere explicitly told?
Speaker: Maybe that um you know it’s not like a switch just gets flipped and everything is ok.
Interviewer: more of a process.
Speaker: Yeah it’s a process.
Speaker: It’s it’s the beginning, like what you were saying earlier, of a process that is going to transcend throughout their lives.
Um that there is a lot more that I would have to I think have to be involved with then I initially realized as a parent, it’s really for us too.
So like I’m learning and having to take notes and having to do these exercised at home.
You know after we leave here each day and probably will have to continue I don’t even know how long, So I really did not know that part was coming then again I wasn’t sure.
So yeah I think letting parents know that you will have to be daily involved in the sessions, but also the work at home.
You know, kind of be prepared to be present physically, mentally, and emotionally throughout the whole process more so than maybe you initially might think.
Speaker: That’s true, I agree with that very much yeah.
I didn’t expect there to be some much involvement either on my end.
I knew there would be, but you know you really have to train yourself.
Oh here’s a moment, here’s uhh you know, instead you have basically fallen into these habits that you have to break and that you’ve been doing for so long and you got form these new habits you know recognize when an opportunity is arising and sometimes you just you know life gets in the way, and you are busy, and you have other children, other things going on and it’s hard to sometimes to bring all that together.
Speaker: I think, I think with having other children that’s one of the biggest challenges, yeah for me too.
Your child has sibling you just can’t 24/7 hone in on that one child unfortunately it’s just not realistic whether they need it or not you can’t, you’re a mother you have to care for all you know.
That’s tough.
Speaker: it’s tough.
It’s really hard
Speaker: It is….
So I think maybe letting people know that… don’t be afraid to ask for or arrange for help ahead of time maybe before going through the program because you know it can be kind of intense while you are in it and if you have other children you may need friends or grandparents or other family whoever might be able to just be around, just to add that extra help to a whole family unit, I certainly think it will be very beneficial.
Speaker: yeah that’s a good idea.
Like bringing the family into it like more so that the siblings can ok this, kind of help get involve.
Speaker: Sure, yeah
Speaker: You know so that it, I don’t know.