Interviewer: Ok, um so what was your involvement in CBT for your kids and what would you think would be useful for other parents to know?
Interviewee: Um, I’ve been involved with our kinds as far as kind of the “brainstormer” to help figure out what challenges need to be addressed, to be the reminder to “you need to do this part of your therapy”, “this is what you need to do on a daily basis in case you forget”, to be somebody who is there to also help instigate some of the behavior to um to get it solved, sometimes you have to do something with the child in order to get the behavior to move forward you have to put them in a scenario.
Like our son had um, being late for school really upset him so we purposely have been like ok I’m like 5 minutes late, you know two minutes late, five minutes late, you know twice a week so to like push him and you have to be part of the fixing process as a parent to go it’s gonna be ups and downs what you need to do but you have to do multiple steps to help the child sometimes because they’re children not adults they can’t do some of these things on their own that they have struggles with and anxieties, so you have to either put them in the scenario that makes them anxious and you look like being late or take them to a place or thing where it challenges them so they’re challenged enough but not too much.
So it’s kind of all in a way caregiver as a parent, you’re that way as their anxiety brain CBT coach too ‘cause to push them from what you learned from your psychiatrist or psychologist or both.
Um, but yet you have to regulate it so that they can move forward enough.
Interviewee: I like the description of it as a coach.
Trying to encourage and uh, I’ve tried to help, you know debrief with her after her sessions and try understand what she has talked about and try to hold her accountable and to see if she’s doing her exercises, how often have you done the behavior, but try to do that in a nonthreatening and comfortable way for her so that she can feel comfortable telling me.
You know if she’s done a behavior that she’s trying to avoid doing, I like the reference of coach because I can relate to that term.
Interviewee: Because we are, as parents, we all coach them in some way whether it’s manners, or behaviors or anxiety.
Interviewee: But you know, with a coach you can’t always encourage, you have to instruct.
Interviewee: Discipline
Interviewee: And help them to become disciplined and stuff so you know I like that term.
Interviewee: It could be a picture behindTER
Interviewer: Yeah.
Have you read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
And the second part of that is, is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Would that be useful?
Interviewee: Yes I have heard and researched and read from books and or article through the internet and what not about CBT because it was, it’s the more knowledge you gain then you know better you use the tool, so to speak.
I think it would be helpful to at least get a little snippet of statistics of how much success rate that you get with CBT that it would be like it this was proven through whatever studies that it is an option that does work and they have proof that it does so it’s like you should at least try it, because it’s not, it has a really good success rate for people living their lives.
You know?
The way they want to live again.