Interviewer 1: Okay. Um, and what’s your involvement in his therapy?
Speaker: So for him, um so I propose occupational therapy and the therapy he’s getting for his anxiety so I, I would remind him (laughs) I have the job of reminding him, for example, he has a routine that he needs to follow at night and in the morning so I, I would remind him. And I would ask him about the situation at his school, if there was any situation that he felt like that okay, he’s very stressed out, he has uh he has difficulty conducting his thought. So I would ask him of the situation that I think might make him anxious. So um, so I think parents needs to be involved, definitely, because um kids are being kids. They might um forget so by being involved and being like a someone that could remind or um, ask them uh what different things happened at the school, especially if they’re at the school. Then I think, they could uh create conversation and find out okay, if the therapy’s working or not because um, then they can address it the next session with the therapy and give feedback, what has been work, what has not been work. And they can um modify if it needs to be modified.
Interviewer 1: Right, so you would just want other parents to know that they should remind their children, um check in on them, see how they’re doing, so that they can make sure that there’s progress.
Speaker: Exactly, because I think, especially if the kids are young, I know that if they are, let’s say, in elementary school, I’m sure the parents are going to be so involved but say even in middle school and high school, um you might say oh our kids are uh independent but still they need uh us to be um to be there to supervise and help them uh in any way that we can.
Interviewer 1: So, parent involvement and support is vital?
Speaker: Yes, yeah.
Interviewer 1: Okay. Um, have you heard or read any scientific research about CBT?
Speaker: No.
Interviewer 1: Do you think this is something we should talk about in the video?
Speaker: Uhh, well I think it would help because for me like still I have a hard time saying anxiety is CBT, you know, or the therapy that he’s getting is considered to be. I think, yeah, I think for maybe a little bit talking about what is it and make it very simple that um it’s not like a [____] it’s like um … It’s hard to understand. I think it has to be very simple, especially if it’s going to be uh in videos to be something simple that both parents and you know uh kids would understand and they’ll know later oh this is something uh, you know sometimes, um, I don’t know how to put it. Um, there are some phrases that you go oh that should be so difficult to understand but then when you look at it and you analyze it, it’s so simple. So it’s a mouthful, CBT, so someone might think this is so, something hard to understand but if you make it, break it down what does it mean and give some simple examples maybe that will be helpful.
Interviewer 1: Right, so just everyday language that anyone can understand.
Speaker: Yeah, yes, exactly.
Interviewer 1: Okay um did you know about anybody else’s experience with CBT?
Speaker: Hmmm … No, other than my daughter and my son, yeah.
Interviewer 1: Okay. Um, so now we get to transition to the part of the interview where we actually talk about how the video will look like.
Speaker: Okay.