Interviewer: Yeah. So would you say it would be useful for parents to know to have open communication between the child and the therapist?
To be patient and stuff like that.
Interviewee: And if they have concerns that the therapist needs to know about to make sure that they are not afraid to talk to the therapist or you know to just you know touch them on the shoulder or something and say can I talk to for just a minute.
Tell me if I’m taking this the wrong way and it’s helpful for both the child and the parent.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely.
And have you read or heard any scientific research that has mentions CBT, and if so or if not do you think this something useful for us to mention in our videos?
Interviewee: Research on CBT.
I don’t think I have which is unusual for me actually.
Um would it be useful?
It is always useful to back up what you say with research.
You don’t necessarily need to say Millers, Smith, and Johnson at al. 1996 and their landmark study.
You don’t have to cite it that way but in literature maybe suggest sources, reputable websites, and reputable sources of information whether it’s printed or electronic that parents and/or kids can look at.
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: That’s always useful.
Always whatever you do, I’m a scientist, you have to back up your claims otherwise its one person’s opinion versus another.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and did you know about anybody else’s experiences of CBT any time in your life?
Interviewee: No
Interviewer: No, ok
Interviewee: I only… I landed into CBT myself actually because I voluntarily went to Vista for three days.
I needed a time out because I was really going downhill fast so and um I actually found that I could help other people, other women who were struggling with suicidal thoughts.
I didn’t know DBT, but I had some encouraging books that they could look at and things that were able to enhance sort of their view of themselves.
Interviewer psychology stuff so.
Interviewer: Yeah, so as I mentioned before we want to develop these video about CBT so we are kind of going to move on talking a little bit more detail about those.
So, thinking about the video, who would be in the video in your perspective?
What characters do you think we should include?
Interviewee: What ages groups are you targeting?
Interviewer: So as of right now we are trying to make the video appeal to both the patients and their family so pretty much all age groups, but um yeah.
Interviewee: And is it just one video?
Interviewer: As of right now.
Interviewee: Um and at what point where would you being showing it?
Interviewer: So Ideally we would like… I mean it would be something that would be shown to patients and families right before they would start treatment to kind of better understand what they are going to be doing.
Interviewee: So not like a public service announcement type of thing.
Interviewer: Um no more so targeting people who are going into CBT.
Interviewee: Ok so an introduction to CBT.
Um how long will it be?
Interviewer: Um not sure.
Probably not like 20 minutes.
Probably something pretty concise, but enough information so people know what to expect.
Interviewee: So remind me your question.
Interviewer: Who would be in the video?
Interviewee: Oh boy!
Um in a world where everyone needs to be included, um you would have to involve some children maybe with different scenarios of how CBT is done.
I would break it into… do you do CBT on a little kid?
Interviewer: Um yeah
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Yeah I would say yeah.