Interviewer: So, I kind of want to go back to the first time you learned about CBT, and um what context was that, was it here, was it elsewhere? When did you first here about CBT?
Speaker: I first learned about it, we are down here from [LOCATION REDACTED], we live in [LOCATION REDACTED], umm I am a neurologist up there umm spoke about and we were recommended to a therapist that was practicing it and then from there we were recommended to a therapist that specialized um specifically using habit reversal [] ____ Tourette, and um we drove to [NAME REDACTED] in [LOCATION REDACTED] and started doing some pretty intensive therapy over there and that ultimately led to diagnosis of OCD and that led us down here so it’s kind of been like one thing after another, but I’d say our neurologist in [LOCATION REDACTED] was the first time I’ve ever heard about this and that was probably… I don’t know maybe three, three four years ago maybe the first we kind of heard of.
Speaker: Um Probably in college I mean as far as very loosely I mean, I heard of it because I had been a psych major prior to going to nursing school but, um but it wasn’t, I really didn’t know what it was about until we started therapy. 
Interviewer: When you first heard about it were there any questions that you had about CBT, and if so what where they?
Speaker: Umm…I needed some specifics you know, I really didn’t know anything about it umm…. The doctor just kind of loosely, you know talked about it but it wasn’t enough for me to really feel like [10:38] ___ so I did some research on it. I didn’t really umm… I though ok this seems cool you know, I hope it’s helpful you know for people but I just that was about it and I thought you know we will see if  the proof is in the pudding. 
Interviewer: Do you remember what you’re a doctor was saying about CBT the first time you were speaking with them, does anything come to mind in terms of ?
Speaker: I just remember him saying that and this may have been more about habit rehearsal therapy which  kind of falls under the umbrella right of CBT. That is was a newer type of therapy the habit rehearsal and that it was a type of therapy use that did not involve medication and that it was a new thing that not many people knew how to do it but more people were learning. It was really catching on and um that’s all I really remember. You know, not a whole lot from him, yeah. Other than he highly recommended it.
Interviewer: And you also mentioned research as well.
Speaker: I just when I say research, I just mean I like went on the internet. I was like alright what does [11:48] ___ actually mean, how long has all this been around. I watched a couple of videos of people doing habit rehearsal therapy for Tourette’s syndrome.  Umm they were I think filmed in England [12:00] __, they were both filmed in England the one I saw. Umm and it was interesting, just to get an idea. I was like what exactly am I going to put my child through. 
Interviewer: Right, right. Did you have similar experiences in terms of like how doctors recommended or for your child or anytime you looked up what CBT was all about?
Speaker: Um I did do research on the internet just like what you did. Um no, I mean… I guess… I… It just it seems to be pretty intuitive It sort of like a desensitization you just, you know, you become desensitize to things you exposure yourself to so, I thought and I heard that there was a lot success so the thing that really you know concerns me is that my child is so young so will he have the ability you know to have the insight into you know doing this type of therapy. So…that’s been hard. Yeah, it’s been hard.