Interviewer: I think it could be used for either.
So either like you’re about to start; you’re getting some information or do you have a thought on when that would be useful?
Like would it be more useful as kind of like when you’re looking?
This kind of gives you some basic information or as you’re about to start therapy this would be helpful for…
Speaker: I tend to be a little bit more of a researcher so if it were something I could see or play ahead of time.
.
In that case I guess it could be a little bit of both or it could be separate.
Parents seeking or adults seeking, or for children.
I probably would have watched both and then if I felt like something I would have shown my child the child one because she was already so anxious to begin with, so going into a new situation and meeting someone new for her was already kind of unsettling.
Just to kid of give a friendly face or a light hearted face to it could be beneficial.
Interviewer: When you say “quick” can you give me a timeframe like if it under this amount of time.
Speaker: Under three minutes.
Interviewer: Okay.
That was helpful because different people have different definitions of “quick” so that’s probably what mine would be as well.
Speaker: And that’s a pretty long time these days because everybody swipes and clicks and is used to controlling everything like really like ten seconds.
I mean I could usually tell during the first thirty seconds of a lesson like they’re not with me.
Same thing public speaking like if you don’t have them in the first minute or two like people are already starting to whip out their phones and they’re gone.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Makes sense.
I agree.
Things keep getting shorter and shorter it seems like.
So now we’ve said who’s in it.
Now we have to decide where they’re gonna talk.
So like would it be at home, school, doctors office, somewhere outside?
None of the above?
Speaker: I don’t know.
Any of those places I think would be okay.
I don’t think where is as important like what like just to present your information.
I would keep it simple.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the content, to you, is more important than the location.
Speaker: Yeah as an adult, the bullet points I would be looking for the bullet points.
The kids aren’t; well depending on their age, but that’s usually not, they like points not bullet points.
They want tokens or points.
“The next level” I don’t know, level up; they’re so into that kind of stuff.
I mean it seems natural that THE_[LOCATION] would be in an office.
I always feel like when we come in here its pediatric so it’s more kid friendly and there are small things for small people and the kids always notice that.
If it’s child friendly, we don’t notice that as much as adults because we are used to everything being our size but like I’m in a child environment all the time so when an adult comes in they’re like “I sit down here?” I mean I promise it will hold you but its low to the ground everything is low to the ground so it’s interesting when you go into an adult’s doctor’s office versus a kids office they notice that stuff and they know it’s for them don’t even ask if they can touch it.
Interviewer: I never really thought about that.
Speaker: It’s not crazy it totally makes sense.
Until you start observing that stuff I never would have thought about it.
Right away if I don’t want my kids to touch something then this is the level, like if it’s up here or higher they won’t mess with it usually without permission.
But anything that’s down here they think it’s their stuff.
Anything that’s on the coffee table they’ll mess with it.
I you don’t want them to mess with it put it up here.
It’s not just toddlers it’s like my teens are the same way.
-Transcribed by Aqueena