Interviewer: Seeing that we’re talking about creating educational videos, well first before I even show you the different layouts we have of different themes, we wanted to know, based off your thoughts or opinions, we need to decide who will be in the videos. So what characters do you think we should include in the videos? Should there be any nonhuman characters such as animals, superheroes, or even children? Should we include a boy or girl? So, just getting a good handle of what you believe, as far as character wise, of what should be in the videos.
Interviewee: I would stick with people versus animals or characters.
Interviewer: Okay so superheroes would be….? Is that people?
Interviewee: I would just do regular people. Personally, but I’m not a professional so I don’t know.
Interviewer: No it’s all about your… we just want to gather information so there’s no right or wrong answer.
Interviewee: Just people. Anybody can relate to people.
Interviewer: People. Okay so when you say people, are we talking about children, parents, friends, doctors?
Interviewee: Yeah, like the doctor, the parents, the patient itself- the child.
Interviewer: Okay so you’re thinking patient, doctor, parents, and families.
Interviewee: Yeah… the office and staff.
Interviewer: Should we include a boy or girl? Both?
Interviewee: Either. Both.
Interviewer: Either or okay. So now that we have an idea of the characters you’d want and some of the videos we’d develop, we need to decide where they talk, so what kind of setting? Would it be home or school, doctor’s office kind of setting, or maybe outside at the park? Which one of those do you think? Or maybe a combination of those?
Interviewee: I would say probably home and office.
Interviewer: Home and office. The doctor’s office?
Interviewee: Depending upon the part or what viewpoint is coming across. Like, whatever setting it happens in.
Interviewer: Okay, and why is that that you’re thinking of the home and doctor’s office?
Interviewee: Just because that’s where it typically would be discussed in the first place.
Interviewer: Okay. So it’s familiar is what you’re saying?
Interviewee: Yes, like a doctor sent us to therapy, or we talked about it at home as a family. A type of setting that it’s already in.
Interviewer: Gotcha. Alright, so now that we know the who and the where, let’s talk about what, like what should they talk about? So what questions about CBT, we kind of already talked about this, if you had any questions, but if you could think of anything for the videos, what questions about CBT do you think the characters need to ask and/ or answer within the video?
Interviewee: Well depending on how young the audience is  [UNDERSCORE], if it’s going to hurt; if it’s anything physical, because when you think of a doctor, you think more of a regular, general doctor. How long something might take. How long the session might be. Just about the confidentiality part- that it’s a safe place to say anything. I can’t think of anything else.
Interviewer: So do you think we should include how CBT, the explanation of how anxiety can become a problem in someone’s life, and do you think that should be discussed in the video as well?
Interviewee: Yeah. The why, the general why you should go to  [UNDERSCORE] how it can help, yes.
Interviewer: Okay. Should we ask how it has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: If it has worked?
Interviewer: Yeah. How or if it has worked for other kids.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Should we ask about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Maybe? In the first video?  [UNDERSCORE]
Interviewer: There’s no right or wrong answer it’s based upon parents’ perspective. What you feel you would’ve wanted to see.
Interviewee: Probably not initially.
Interviewer: Not initially. Okay. Should we ask about what parents can or can’t do to help?
Interviewee: Yes. Definitely.
Interviewer: Why would you say definitely?
Interviewee: Because that’s always helpful. Suggestions and expectations.