Interviewee: What’s it like, you know, whatever. An interview, I don’t know. I know when I first saw it go down that’s when I was like woah this is what we’re doing and then leaving and thinking that was so simple and so obvious. In some ways being like this is not going to do anything because of just how simple and obvious it was but then being immediately… given examples-seeing personal examples with my child but oh my God it totally worked. Its working and it’s totally useful. Because it did seem so simple, right why wouldn’t we face your fears and why wouldn’t we, you know. I think its almost sometimes giving the permission and the confidence that yes, this is what we’re going to do and it is going to be okay. You are going to be okay. That kind of thing because at first I was sort of like oh this is like I’m glad we didn’t sign up for block off two weeks of our lives to do this because at first I was like this is very basic and very simple. But it got quick results and I remember immediately just being like wow that’s pretty cool. Let’s see what’s next. Yup wow that was really cool too. Having my child feel the same way because the place of terror you’re coming from feels so all-encompassing and for something so simple to give you such relief and control is nice. I don’t know if there is any way to present that. I don’t know if that’s other people’s experiences, I certainly hope so.
Interviewer: We’re glad that it’s your experience.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay, so presenting kind of like how that could… How it seems-
Interviewee: Yeah. What an exposure- what that might even, in a quick basic way showing kind of what the roles would be or what that might look like. A little-
Interviewer: Would including information about parent’s roles and like what they can do to help, would that be beneficial as well?
Interviewee: I think, I mean I’m a parent so I think so but…
Interviewer: Right. And so especially I’m guessing- well so would that be useful even if it was just one video or would that be better in a separate parent video?
Interviewee: In my mind I almost feel like you can do both in one but it would probably need to be longer than three minutes. I don’t know how your content would go but I feel like a kids one would be a little different than what a parent’s one would be. It would be more a little factual based whereas a kid one would be more experienced based. The role playing, like what it’s going to look like. Again you said you didn’t know if this was just going to be pediatrics right? The patients could also be adults.
Interviewer: No. Sorry I may have misspoke. All the patients will be pediatric. The only thing we haven’t decided on what whether or not it would be one video or two separate ones.
Interviewee: I would think to separate ones.
Interviewer: So do you think having two separate videos would be beneficial but in addition would you prefer to have one five minute video or two separate three minute.
Interviewee: I would make it longer. I mean it doesn’t even have to be 3 minutes just depending on how much content you have. You can probably keep kids for three minutes but you probably can’t keep adults that long. You would keep me that long.
Interviewer: Good to know.
Interviewee: unless I got really sidetracked.