Interviewer: Good to know. So now we’re going to talk about the how. So how the video will look like. We have 3 options of artistic styles. 1 being the line art option, 2 being vector art, and 3 being the comic art blended with live action, and so I’ll give you a second to look through them and have some questions for you later. You can let me know when you’ve looked through them and understand them- the concept of all three of them.
Speaker: Okay.
Interviewer: Okay so before we get started on that, I have to ask you: are there any cartoons or animated movies that you personally like? Try to list them off, what are some of them?
Speaker: Sure. Well we’re a big animation fam so of course, Disney and Pixar. We actually have a lot of anime as well. Anything from Pokémon to Avatar.
Interviewer: So you’re big on animation?
Speaker: Yeah. Our family is, yeah.
Interviewer: So all of the above?
Speaker: Pretty much.
Interviewer: Okay so based on the styles you see, the three options, which one would you choose? Which one do you like the most, more so?
Speaker: Personally? Or which one do I think should be used in a video for kids?
Interviewer: Personally.
Speaker: Personally, I like line art best of these three.
Interviewer: Line art. Why does it appeal to you the most?
Speaker: Simplified. Gets the point across. It’s just less distracting.
Interviewer: Okay, so it’s clear and concise. It sounds like you had two options…
Speaker: Vector art would be the second.
Interviewer: Vector art would be your second option? Okay, so it sounds like you had two options: you had a personal option and one for children if you could choose that one. So which one would you choose for children if you had the option?
Speaker: They’d probably take better to vector art.
Interviewer: Okay and why do you think that is?
Speaker: It’s more common to what they see. They don’t see a lot of the line art. The doodles and stuff like that.
Interviewer: Okay, that’s good to know. What do you think the take home messages from the video should be?
Speaker: Trying to get them excited about coming. It has to be honest, that it’s not easy, like there’s going to be work to it, but it’s all worth it to give it a try.
Interviewer: Sounds good, and is there anything you feel like I missed? Anything important that I haven’t asked about that you feel we need to take into account?
Speaker: I don’t think so. I mentioned the whole confidentiality part, because kids are often afraid to say something. I can’t think of anything else.
Interviewer: Okay, well that’s it. After this…