Interviewer: So you talked about that being the first thing and so I’m guessing after that came the recommendation for therapy?
Speaker: Yes and then we were told because there were- I was like is this going to be talk therapy where we come in and talk about our feelings type thing? Is that, you know, what’s going on and that’s when we were kind of given a sort of what I felt like was a little bit of a brief overview. We were told about the fear hierarchy or whatever it was and we were talking and we- once there was a diagnosis of… at first it was generalized anxiety and OCD and so I didn’t even understand really what OCD was at the time. So I just had thought that it was a physical manifestation only that it was habitual habits that you would be acting out kind of that maybe you had to have a thought process that went with it but I always felt like it had some sort of recognizable physical representation as well. Then getting, just on our first meeting, talking about no it can even just be a thought process it doesn’t ever even have to be animated. There is no kind of thing to that and understanding what that was put it into perspective for me to all of a sudden go oh you can get kind of caught in a loop of just thoughts that prevent you from carrying life on comfortably type thing. So then it was explained to us and she I remember gave us a little diagram that showed two rainbows and something I don’t even remember but talking about that it was basically kind of like an exposure where were going to rate things- your comfort level on things and addressing and things we had already realized, patterns that brought us in in the first place. Reaching out for help was because recognizing that there was these certain things that kept popping up and… so it was like yeah let’s just start addressing those things and as we worked through those things realizing, you know, it was pretty cool just prioritizing, you know, what you wanted to work with first and really had quick results with- at the time I think my daughter was in 5th grade? 4th grade? It was like 4 years ago. Talking about the dedication that it would take to know that there were a couple paths we could do. You know, Ideally It would be fairly quick and regular but it didn’t- I will just say working with children in the 9-5 to 9-4 window and wanting to work with them every day or every other day was kind of overwhelming as a parent because that interrupts their regular education and lifestyle and stuff. So we ended up trying to find a way to do both things kind of and so- which presented like it’s kind of going to be longer, we’re going to have to work at this longer type thing but the results happens so quickly and that was really helpful too because it’s kind of heartbreaking as a parent to want to help your child but knowing we can’t come here every day and spend the first two hours- 9-11, you’re going to miss so much school. That kind of thing but with the actual thing, our experience anyway with the actual- what I love is that it was giving her tools and it was- she could practice things outside of therapy as well that continued to help her benefit, you know, even outside of the actual sessions that we were having.