Interviewee: Yeah. Ultimately I feel like she’s in control of it.
It’s not like you have to do this at any time if you change your mind, you know.
And I think as a child that was probably helpful for her because you tend to be told you’re going to listen to the adults and you’re going to, you know.
At least that’s how we roll but I think her realizing, you know, this is making me way more
being able to vocalize and say never mind not ready for that or you know this is how I am feeling and always being able to give that feedback and it’s always been adjusted immediately and not oh okay well were done but like okay we’ll back it down we’re still going to keep working like this, you know.
I don’t know
Interviewer: She still has some control.
Interviewee: Yeah she’s felt like she’s had some control of it I think so that’s helped her feel like she can still make progress without having to completely submit to everyone.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
You talked about- you mentioned how you didn’t realize that OCD can be this thought labor-
Interviewee: Yeah this really internal.
I didn’t realize- yeah.
Interviewer: It sounds like similarly anxiety you mentioned kind of this thought spiral.
So you mentioned, you know, how that kind of becomes a problem in someone’s life.
If someone- in terms of anxiety and OCD, and this may be similar to your own experiences but what would be important for other patients to know?
So like not necessarily about the therapy itself but about the anxiety that we are trying to treat with CBT?
Does that make sense?
Interviewee: I think so, well from what I have seen it almost they like remedies almost even.
So sometimes it’s like having the anxiety about the OCD or… obsessing about… yeah obsessing about something that’s making you anxious.
It’s almost like sometimes it can be… because I’ve tried to separate them because I know you can, you know, just have one and not the other and I’m trying to separate them but it seems like there’s a dance that there is happening often times and… really I think that the CBD or CBT is applicable to both situations.
So it’s win/win no matter what if it’s something that tends to be that, well I guess they kind of both are well I don’t know at least I’m not experienced that’s kind of what it’s been, she gets stuck in a cycle and then it’s just complete breaks are on, everything is stopping and she can’t break herself free from it without these different tools that she’s finally got.
Just recognizing and realizing what she can sense things right away like my heart rate is picking up and she has tools that she can use that she can do anywhere anytime and if that’s… if it continues to elevate and she feels that going on then she has sort of these checks and balances that she can use.
If it ever gets to the point where she feels like she can’t manage it of course then we usually just come to session to
out whatever is going on and adjusting it a little bit.
That’s kind of been her attempt but her solution our solution…
Interviewer: So you mentioned, oh sorry were you?
Interviewee: No.