Interviewer: So let kids know that there’s nothing wrong with them?
Interviewee: That it’s okay, yes.
Because some kids are like, “Oh, if my friends find out that I’m seeking therapy that must mean something’s wrong with me.”
That cognitively.
I don’t want to use the word disabled, but something’s wrong.
So make it like, “No, it’s normal.”
As I said, the name CBT, cognitive, some people might say, “Okay, that means that you or your kid have some mental problem.”
So it has to be made like, yes, it’s a big word but that doesn’t mean it’s something where you feel like you have to be labeled for doing the therapy.
Interviewer: Okay, is there anything I missed?
Anything else you would like to talk about?
Interviewee: So these videos, will be available where?
At the school level?
Interviewer: Mostly for right now, we’re thinking it’s for patients or parents that are considering going into therapy, but we have heard that we should make it available to schools so that kids know that the option is available to them.
Interviewee: Okay.
I think that would be great because for people who are coming here, they have already taken the step, so it’s going to help them to continue.
But I think it would be very helpful if it’s being shown at the school because like I’ve said, for me, I felt like I neglected, and I felt like, “Oh no, this is simply because my kid needs to work harder,” but after I brought my daughter and I saw what’s possible, I saw the benefit of it, I was like, “Okay, I want to do it for my son too.
[UNDERSCORE] Oh no, he’s going to be labeled, because there is this, especially with international people, this stigma of, “Oh, you’re going to therapy?
Something must be wrong.”
So I think if this is available at the school or even if the school let parents know that these videos are available, and if they want to, they can access it.
Then parents can look at it if they feel like, “Okay, maybe I want to give it a try.”
Because I think you would see the benefit of it for people who don’t know about your program.
And I think the best place is school- that’s where parents get their information most of the time.
Interviewer: So just make it more accessible so that more people are educated and not scared of it?
Interviewee: Exactly, yes.
Interviewer: Okay, is there anything else?
Interviewee: No, I think that’s it.
Interviewer: Thank you so much for your time.
Interviewee: Of course.
Interviewer: Alright so thanks for meeting with us today.
We already kind of went through a lot of what the study is about.
To just kind of reiterate, we are going to talk about cognitive behavioral therapy so really just the therapy that we are going here at the clinic.
So you may have some experience with other types of therapy, we’re going to try to focus on this type of therapy here.
Ideally we’ll use this to create some videos.
We haven’t quite decided yet if it will be more geared towards children and parents or if we’re going to do two separate videos.
So that’s some questions you might have different thoughts on based off of either.
Interviewee: Do you include the FEAR facers camp?
Is that a part of the clinic from here?
Interviewer: Yes, you can include stuff from FEAR facers.
Interviewee: Because that was very awesome.
Interviewer: I’m a big fan of FEAR facers, so yeah.
That would be fine for this as well.
Interviewee: Okay.