Interviewer: Um, according to the slides it said 6 videos, 15 minutes each. So that could be different elements of CBT. Not quite sure, that’s kind of what our focus group is trying to figure out like the when, what, how, where. The whole aspect of it so I don’t think anything is set in stone yet.
Speaker: Just I would always take into consideration you don’t want to make it more than 22 minutes and you want it more than 7 because you can usually get messages across to people better in that little time frame of 7 to 22 minutes for kids and for adults for that matter.  
Interviewer: Note takers is there anything you needed clarified or questions on?
Note Taker- I guess toward the beginning with the question saying like “What did you want to know about CBT when you first started?” You said you didn’t have any you could think of, so maybe now that we’ve talked about it
Speaker: Maybe the only thing would be about it would be just the time table, but with the realization of it, for some people it’s a long process. But just uh.
Speaker: But a general idea would be nice. 
Speaker: a general idea yeah.
Speaker: Like typically with this happens with this kid happens… You can’t be specific but you can go like you know, “If you work a little harder at this particular challenge, then you know you do it five days a week versus one you’re gonna move further ahead.” Those things that we do in our own sessions, the more you do that the faster you’re gonna progress. Those kind of things would be helpful to know that the more you do it, the more you practice and do your homework and what not, and you’ll get there faster. 
Interviewer: Anything else? I’ll go grab [Name Redacted] and we can let you guys get out of here? 
Interviewer: Ok, thank you so much for meeting with us today. I’m working with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavior therapy and the kind of therapy your daughter has been doing, and for this project we want to develop a short educational video that would describe this type of therapy and give a little more insight to patients and family to what they can expect from cognitive behavior therapy. Also, cognitive behavior therapy is pretty long so throughout I’m just going to shorten it to CBT. So to start can you tell me what comes to mind when you think of CBT.
Speaker: A therapist or psychologist talking with the adolescent about, or even an adult, about ways to handle different stressors um so… um it’s something that helps to reframe how a child sees or experiences what they think is a problem.
Interviewer: Yeah, definitely so helping them handle certain stressors and kind of reframing their cognition and could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words. What would you explain what it is? 
Speaker: Can you restate the question.
Interviewer: Yes, so in your own words if you had to provide a definition of what CBT is, what would you say that it is? I know kind of what you mentioned is what comes to mind to you is kind of a good definition. You know kind of summarize that.
Speaker: Narrow it down. Cognitive behavior therapy would be… not supposed to say the same word in the definition. Therapy or meeting one-on-one with a CBT trained specialist or psychologist with a patient um and to try to change behavior by thinking of things in a different way.
Interviewer: Yeah, ok awesome! And when you first learned about this type of therapy that we do here, do you remember if you had any questions or if there was something specific you wanted to know about CBT?
Speaker: Well, I also have gone through considerable CBT therapy so when it came time for my daughter to um go through it as well I didn’t hesitate to put her in it because I knew it was something that worked.