Interviewer: You like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, I do because I think you can do a lot with that as far as the chaos that’s going on in their mind you could really illustrate that you know sometimes a conflict.
Interviewer: Right, the second choice we have is vector art which is um more limited in terms of like the cartoony style um which I think is a style that you would see commonly a lot on those explain YouTube videos they have kind a like approach as well.
And the then last one is um kind of looking more at a comic art style which kind of relates to also  [UNDERSCORE] what we were discussing superheroes as well as having some more of these this type of, the picture is probably describe it better than I could um in terms of like the coloring um.
Between these three, is there a style that stands out to you?
Interviewee: This one.
Interviewer: The line art.
Interviewee: Hands down.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so too.
Interviewee: Definitely not the third one.
Interviewer: Definitely not the third one.
Interviewee: Throw that one away.
Interviewer: Throw that one away…
Do you think that’s something that’s um would be maybe dependent on the kid’s age?
Interviewee: It certainly could, but I don’t know the first thing I think of is kind of like what you said earlier it’s like um you know are we taking this seriously or are we making fun of it, or what are we doing here.
It’s confusing and very stimulating and like I don’t know.
That’s just not…
Interviewee: It’s like you’re almost, like you’re almost being dumbed down like you feel like it.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Like you’re not taking it seriously.
I see what you are saying.
Interviewee: I don’t know as an adult I know how it makes me feel and I’m thinking for a child that’s yeah I don’t.
My son would probably be like are they trying to make fun of like this is weird, why are they doing this.
I think it would confuse him.
Yeah, that’s just me I like this the best.
Interviewer: Awesome!
Um in terms of a setting, do you guys have an idea on where they should talk?
So you have places at home, we have school, a doctor’s office, you have the outdoors, anything else like what kind of comes to mind?
Interviewee: Like what settings?
Interviewer: Yeah like what setting?
It could be one setting, it could be multiple settings.
What are your thoughts on um what we should do in terms of that?
Interviewee: Multiple settings, like what would occur in their daily lives like school would be a part of it you know like these little things can show the little thoughts going on in their head as they are confronted with different things you know that might bother them through the day um, and I mean um like for my son you know recess what would happen during recess maybe something might you know disturb him there or just I don’t know.
Interviewee: Well maybe extracurricular things like if they are involved in sports or music after school you know because certainly that’s the end of the day and that’s when everybody symptoms are getting worse even..
Interviewee: Oh yeah when they are coming home from school.
Interviewee: Homework, it’s like the armpit of the day.
Um so yeah maybe extracurriculars, sports um other than that or whatever they happen in ballet class or whatever happens in the other three mentioned.
I can’t imagine anything else that would really be um maybe from a Tourette syndrome standpoint trying to be quiet in a quiet place like a movie theatre, church…
Interviewee: Library.
Interviewee: Library, yeah um you know a play, a planetarium.
These are all real challenges for these kids because they can’t just.