Interviewee: Anxiety, okay.
Okay, so as I said, because it’s been really 4 or 5 sessions, and 2-3 sessions, it was just for the doctor to know him and understand, you know, what are the things that bother him, uh, so it’s been maybe 2-3 sessions that he has given him some techniques to help him with anxiety.
So one of them was like breathing technique.
If he feels like that, okay, he’s in a situation that he’s not able to focus and he feels he’s going to pick his nails because that’s one of the things he, uh, one of the things that he does when he’s anxious.
He’s very tense, he actually picks his fingers, uh so, so he, the doctor told him try this uh technique.
But he asked him to do it every day so he would become more comfortable.
And then when the situation comes back that he’s anxious, it just comes naturally to him to think about okay, what I need to do?
So um, so I think that was helpful because um, he doesn’t know he has anxiety.
He doesn’t uh call it anxiety.
He says okay, this is, okay this is what I feel, how I feel.
But I think uh knowing [
] and practicing, so it’s like training your brain.
So it’s that, so in that sense I see the benefit of, you know, therapy that he’s getting.
So that’s one technique that, um uh, actually he’s trying to actually do it every day and um.
So the second session that he had, I wasn’t in the room so it was only him with the doctor but then I asked my son so it was like uh if there was a situation that he felt like that he doesn’t like it so he needs to think about it and come up with the question so that why I’m feeling that way?
Is there any uh, is this my assumption?
Or there could be another reason for what things are happening.
So instead of thinking the worst scenario, so he could think okay maybe there was something that caused this situation and it’s not difficult.
For example.
If my mom is not picking up the phone, he might think oh there is an accident and that makes him to be anxious.
Instead of that, he can think okay, what are the other reasons might be that my mom is not picking up the phone?
So it’s with that, the things that might make him anxious, he could start asking questions and instead of choosing the first answer that comes to his mind, that oh maybe an accident happened, oh the worst thing that could happen, he could think about other scenarios.
So I think that’s helpful.
That’s uh, I’m not saying that, uh, she gets into those situations because I ask him every day, did you actually need to sit down and think about the situation because you were anxious?
He said no. But at least, I think it’s good that he knows these are the things that he can use to help him to fight whatever he’s going through
Interviewer1: Right, so you think the CBT helps with the techniques and helps him with his thinking to be more rational?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah exactly
Interviewer1: Okay.
Um, so think of three words that describe how you feel about the kind of therapy.
Um, what would those words be?
Interviewee: Um … the type of therapy he’s getting?
Interviewer1: Mmhmm
Interviewee: Okay … um … thoughtful, calm … um less impulsive?
Interviewer1: Thoughtful, calm and less impulsive?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer1: Okay.
And if you were to add a picture to each of these words, what would that be?
Interviewee: For calm, I’d put uh, I would say … river?
Or ocean?
Interviewer1: Mmmhmm
Interviewee: Um …
Interviewee: For thoughtful, um … I can’t come up with anything for thoughtful and
Interviewer1: Less impulsive
Interviewee: Less impulsive.
Um, picture of two people.
One is being shouting or being aggressive and the second person, uh taking his time,
Interviewer1: Okay.
Interviewee: Not responding right away.