Speaker: I think that unless you’re going to do a montage of home, school, friends, doctors office, I would do a neutral site in essence whether that’s outdoors or something that is not one of them. Again I think the whole process of this is this isn’t just something you do at a doctor’s office, this isn’t just something you do at home, and this isn’t just something you do at school. So if the setting of that is something that recognizes one of those main areas, I think it takes away from the notion that, but if you have a neutral place that’s outside or something that’s not one of those main areas. Unless you want to do any. 
Speaker: Like if you did do it in that way, I would think that it would help show that it encompasses all areas of your life. It will help you fix all the different areas of your life, if you do choose to do like different scenarios of places. Like it could help you everywhere. 
Speaker: Right. I mean I would think that you would either want to try to include as many or one that’s not one of them. 
Interviewer: Ok.  
Speaker: We give you a 50/50 choice. (Laughter)
37:09- Um, So the next thing is what um would they talk about? We’ve already talked about this with the first set of questions, so generally what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer? 
Speaker: Um, I think possible maybe the characters can talk about how they feel, you know what’s making them feel so; looking for answer kind of thing. And the CBT could be like this is something I’ve heard, I’ve read, or I’ve done and it happens like this and how it helps you so that and when there’s a problem scenario of “I’m feeling sad” or “my life is this, this, this” and then you have the other friend, or person, or doctor whoever talked to them and know this is an option to help that. So, for me it’s like feeling-based of your emotions will dictate how your brain is working and how you are living with your anxiety will cause you to have the emotion and so if they talk about the emotions, everybody has those feelings and so the other person the character’s talking to can say “well I feel that, or understand that, and this is what I’ve found, and this is what I do” if it’s like a similar kind of peer like two kids talking about like “oh I do this too.” Two kids who know one already has CBT in them, one doesn’t, “You seem really sad,” you know, “what’s going on with you?”  And they talk a little bit and say “Well, I’ve done this” Scenario kind of thing. 
Speaker: Yeah I think just going back to the basics of “why am I here?” “What is this?” “How would this help?”
Interviewer: ok. Yeah that makes sense. So, um, the next question we have I have some pictures to show you guys. Basically we want to decide how the video is going to look, so I have some examples I can pull up here. I’ll be able to turn it around for you. Yeah, let’s see… So um we’re hoping to do um six videos, fifteen minutes long, um featuring multiple and diverse children, content supplemented by animated elements and motion graphics. So we have three options. I’ll kind of you just you guys look this over, read this over, and I’ll show you the next two as well… So just let me know when you’re done with that one. And just generally thinking like it, if you don’t like it, and then we’ll talk about the three of them at the end. So this is the first one, this is the second one…