Interview- Any other questions or anything you wanted to add on to that point? 
Speaker: For me, about CBT itself is that, um my husband and myself practice it as well so for us we didn’t have the quite “what’s going on?” the unfamiliarity with it. So it was more of a process of, so now we start our child into getting to the step, so for me I had uh big um, I already had my feet in the water of the pool, I knew what it was kind of about, but it is, it can be overwhelming to figure out where your starting place is. To feel like what’s the thing you need to like put your little finger in first to like, to have a jumping off point. And sometimes, sometimes you have to pick and choose where you start that point too. For the difficulty of the person, for the child that’s going through it they may not be able to handle that and we have always done like a fear hierarchy which help you a basis of what the um the things you need to work on. I think that helped a lot with designing the CBT to then know where your increments are to have to, you can push you enough, this is not too much but it pushes you enough to get to be at a more stable place of um… you know a focused place of that you’ve at a stepping stone point to step off and go now I can breathe for a second and think “where is my next place I gotta jump off and work and hurdle and kind of get over.” 
Interviewer: Ok. Um, so was there anything really quick off that question is there anything that when you came into therapy you really wanted to know about CBT? It’s sort of a similar question but 
Speaker: Um, I don’t, initially for CBT I guess we wanted to know what, um what kinda the prognosis is, what like does everyone like, you know, succeed and flourish under doing CBT or is it only certain types of personalities or types of challenges you have. So, we kind of wanted to know, as CBT as a option, it is for everybody kind of thing? Or is it just like certain people who have certain kind of things have certain challenges, is it just for them. So that was kind of well maybe a curve that we wanted to know or really unfamiliar to know what type people or does everybody you know like is everybody getting the flu shot or not you know  
Interviewer: right exactly
Speaker: so that was something we thought about in the beginning. 
Interviewer: Absolutely
Speaker: _____________
Interviewer: Ok, How much did you guys know about CBT from things like movies or tv, the internet, or just other people. Um like how had you heard about it in the media or stuff like that. 
Speaker: Not very much. I’ve seen more movies or information more about the conditions of people who have like problem and need help but, the focus on like a CBT-type solution I don’t think has been really out there much as far as the movie industry and newspaper articles and such. I think now it is being more of a go to thing for doctors and for people thinking of it and so it is coming out why you are making the video people are turning to it more than people in the past. Well this person has this condition, this persona has that condition and what do we do drug wise or therapy wise. And now it’s like the CBT is getting bigger poster board so people can say “oh wow, how bout that”. So I think now its getting more of a claim of therapy to do.
Interviewer: ok