Interviewee: I’ve always looked at it as a three step process of your thinking, your feelings, your behavior and you try to make somebody aware of their behavior and their feelings that they had when they had those behaviors, and the thoughts that cause those feelings.
And then you try to get them to change their thoughts so they can change their feelings, then change their behavior.
Interviewer: And um, you know, when you guys first came here and were learning about what kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what questions you had or maybe what you were feeling or thinking at that point about CBT?
Interviewee: Well, I mean, the time table would be one you know, what is the length of time, they think, my daughter would need to go through the therapy.
That was my biggest question.
And I know that with um, when you have the need for CBT.
I that it?
That for some people it’s a lifetime commitment to changing those behaviors and stuff.
But, I wasn’t sure how long the therapy lasts for.
That was one of the biggest questions I had, still don’t know the answer to that.
Interview: Yeah that’s a good question, yeah.
Any other questions that you guys had coming in?
Interviewee: For me, it’s different, I’ve been exposed to CBT since, our daughter is 12, so basically since she was 4.
So I’ve had a long process and experience with dealing with CBT.
Um, in the very beginning I would say mostly it’s like, what do you expect of how long to, you can’t predict changes but how long do you say we do this certain area of CBT before we either increase the difficulty or you say let’s put that on the backburner and tackle this instead.
So to me it’s like a stair system of how well you progress and how much you need to push further to progress further, because to me CBT is a stepping process of challenging yourself to be a little bit pushed to the edge so that you can reprogram to be challenged again, to go further so that you can be, get to the place that you’re trying to get to.
Interviewer: So it sounds like you know.
Sorry
Interviewee: I just wanted to say, you I was trying to recall, you know how I was feeling with it, my daughter’s need for therapy rose, I think, fairly quickly and sense of panic, I think, on our part sort of not understanding how it kicked in for her and this feeling of a little bit of helplessness and um trying to deal with it on our own, which is why we reached out for help obviously, but I had a little bit of a sense of panic, on my part, of wanting to be able to help my daughter and not understanding why it kicked in for her.