Interviewer: So is there a way of doing that in which you don’t scare off the parents?
Speaker: Umm I don’t think you can… scare off the parents because you have to do it.
You have to I mean what are you going to do?
Not do it.
Interviewer: Right
Speaker: I mean… just oh well that’s too scary I’m not, that’s too much work.
I’m not going to do it.
My kid is not that worth it.
No, you are going to do it, you know.
You have to but at least you know, you know.
Interviewer: Yeah ok.
That makes a lot of sense and talking about um the parent video um one option we had was talking about what parents can and can’t do to help.
Is that something that should be discussed in these videos?
Speaker: Yeah
Speaker: What they can and can’t do to help like while we are here?
Or…
Interviewer: Probably in terms of like interacting with your child, what’s useful?
What’s not useful?
Speaker: I think that’s good….
Because I feel like a lot of times we do exactly the opposite of what we should do.
We coddle them.
Its ok you’ll be fine...umm
Speaker: ‘I’ve learn a lot of things that I was doing yeah that were just completely counteractive and I was like…
Speaker: Umm I don’t know what you think
Speaker: But as a mother you tend to just yeah.
Maybe just let them know that be prepared to break some habits.
Be prepared for um some of your basic ideas of parenting maybe challenged, you know because it does.
Things you thought all along you know you are making it better.
Yeah.
Speaker: Yeah you do not want to make it better.
It’s like the opposite.
Like you… It might make you sick I don’t know.
Interviewer: Having embracing what you are learning through therapy.
Yeah, definitely.
I do want to go back briefly to when we talked about the parent video um in terms of we mentioned having if there was a parent focused video, the parents would probably be the stars of those.
Would you also want kids in there for the parent videos?
And like how would that look?
Speaker: I would maybe um… would these be cartoons or totally definitely?
Speaker: Don’t, for parents.
Interviewer: Well I guess that’s the question too.
For parents, if we are doing a parent style video would you have a preference between like these?
Speaker: Um…
Interviewer: or like  __.
Speaker: I mean yeah.
I think you know one of these is ok for the parent also but…
Interviewer: The line art?
Speaker: Yeah but um I mean I would want to maybe see interviews of actual patients if they were willing to…
Interviewer: For that
Speaker: If they are willing to do it and their parents you know for the families that have gone through it and just kind of talk about their story briefly.
I would want to see that.
Interviewer: Anything to add.
Speaker: Umm no I just think it’s going to be adults.
We do not need to get all fancy.
They just want the information
Interviewer: information, right.
Speaker: You know
Interviewer: So, um overall take home message of the video, if you had to really concisely sum it all up in terms of what absolutely should be in the video, what should that be?
Speaker1: Umm
Speaker:  ___ …. Probably that you know um expect you are going to come in here with problems, expect a challenge, except hard-work, and hope that the outcome is you know a smoother, a more easily operating mind of a child.
You know that there’s been significant resolution to a problem that it isn’t just let’s go to out appointment and go back to our normal day.
That it’s going to be a lot of work for everybody.