Interviewer: So based off that, what do you think is important for other patients to know about anxiety and CBT?
Speaker: Just in general… that it can be all encompassing, that it takes commitment, time. It’s not just a cure and it goes away. You learn coping strategies and you still work on it.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Speaker: Not specifically that I know of, I can make a guess.
Interviewer: Try your best.
Speaker: We talk a lot about taking the hardship of it, being involved in it himself. ____ phase hardship a lot.
Interviewer: What about thoughts? Or feelings or actions? Do you feel that CBT targets this area? How you heard anything about that in sessions?
Speaker: They bring me in at the end, and sometimes he has something to say specifically. ___ that it’s hard to address something, if we can put it into words, talking through it all.
Interviewer: Are there any questions that you wish you’d asked before you started the CBT sessions?
Speaker: Not that I can think of. Not that I remember.
Interviewer: What was your involvement in CBT? So, what does your involvement look like within the sessions when you come in here?
Speaker: He goes pretty much weekly. Depending on his session, they want us both there first. Sometimes it’s just him then they bring me in for my view as well. Sometimes it matches, sometimes it does not. So they want to make sure we’re on the same track. We review what they had been working on for the week. They give him homework, tasks to complete. Just being a part of that, one, because I can give input to how  ____ and two, I’m hearing about what they’re saying. Otherwise, he just leaves and he says he doesn’t know.
Interviewer: So it’s helpful, sounds like.
Speaker: Yes. Because then I can say, “Well what did they same about that?” and he can remember what she said, because I heard it too. It’s not bad. It’s just being a tween child and some of it is that there’s a lot of information to take in.
Interviewer: So, knowing that, what do you think would be useful for other parents to know, from your experiences?
Speaker: Just making sure that you’re open about it all. Put your cards on the table kind of thing. If they don’t have the whole picture, it’s hard to make any progress.
Interviewer: So what do you think parents also need to know about sessions and how they work and
Speaker: That you will be involved with it as well, it’s not just your child; it’s a team effort.
Interviewer: That’s good. Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Speaker: Not that I can think of.
Interviewer: Okay so if not, do you believe it’s something we should talk about in the videos that we are going to be constructing?
Speaker: Probably. I mean, is it geared toward the parent or the child or both?
Interviewer: I believe it will be geared towards both.
Speaker: ____
Interviewer: Not really sure how it will turn out, but just based off of you…
Speaker: Just major statistics or something that benefit… just to show there’s science behind it… the reason why you should participate.
Interviewer: Good to know. Did you know about somebody else’s experience with CBT prior to sessions here?
Speaker: Prior to sessions here, yeah, my oldest child.
Interviewer: Okay so your oldest child had CBT, that was the approach used with your oldest child?
Speaker: One of them.
Interviewer: Okay. Was it a positive or negative experience overall?
Speaker: It was positive.
Interviewer: Based off of that what do you think would be useful to know, based off your previous experience with one of your children?
Speaker: Just that there is hope in it, and that you can get help through it, that they’ll help you work through it one step at a time.