Interviewee: I’d probably use the term that usually you feel anxiety you feel powerless.
Powerless over whatever certain things that may be causing you anxiety or powerless that you don’t know what to do about the behavior that is manifesting from that.
Not feeling you have the power
Interviewer: Ok, yeah.
Um, is there anything else that might be important for other patients to know how anxiety is becoming a problem in their life?
Interviewee: Um, I think sometimes as an individual you might not always understand and see the anxiety’s being overwhelming, sometimes its family members or people closest to you that give you a wakeup call or kind of an intervention that you need to have help with your anxiety.
Um, sometimes its hard for the individual to be able to see [UNDERSCORE].
Um, it kind of sometimes they have to go to rock bottom before they can go wait a minute I really need some help somewhere else because my anxiety is overwhelming and taking over my life.
“I feel I have no life”, kind of thing.
Interviewee: The uh, you know we’ve had to look at our daughter, we’ve had to look at our family, but we have access to both of those areas.
My daughter still feels, I mean she has anxiety, also though, at school, with teachers and with fellow students.
We don’t have access to those really and I don’t know, I don’t have a suggestion on how do you get access that, but I have gone to talk to her teachers but um.
Interviewer: um could you guys tell me if there are
Interviewee: I think CBT targets the brains ability to, if something bad happens, give you a better perspective or give you a way out.
If you use CBT the right way you are able to overcome obstacles that normally with the anxiety brain would hold you back.
So CBT gives you the tools and the ability to push away the stuff and go “okay let’s tackle this and um the ‘we’re gonna get this done’ attitude.”
Interviewee: Would you ask the question again?
Interviewer: Sure, um any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Interviewee: Um, faulty thinking and trying to recognize when you’re not um where your thinking a situation is one thing but it’s not really and then the ramifications of that.
I think faulty thinking and recognition of the behaviors that you’re doing.