Interviewer: So um, Should they ask about what parents can and can’t do to help in the video? Should that be something discussed in the video?
Speaker: That’s in every video, every video today. Parent approval, you know. And it’s like, we over; we over-parent out kids anyway. So I don’t know if it has to be in there. I in some way, yes as a role model in a way, but not you know “you should do this and not this” and they mock, kids mock that all the time. 
Interviewer: So now there’s a fun part of the series of videos. How do we decide, we get to decide how the video will look like, but first let me ask you before I show you some options: What kind of animated films or cartoons do you like to watch?
Speaker: Um, gee anything that’s entertaining and witty. You know like they put an old Mickey Mouse cartoon on, it’s like you’ve seen it, you know you can glance at it and enjoy it. But you know something that challenges you and you know “what is this?” (22:02) ______.... It’s fascinating, like I said I’ve done lots of commercials and I’ve been in a couple of movies, I’ve been a ballet dancer my whole life, so I’ve done lots of filming in lots of different locations. I’ve been to twenty three countries, I’ve been all over the world and it’s amazing what visual arts can do. With basically not saying a word. 
Interviewer: Yeah. So I’m going to give you these options. There’s three options here with different styles. There’s the line art style, there’s a vector art style, and there’s a live action style. So looking at these styles, I’ll give you a few seconds, or a few minutes to look over it.
Speaker – I don’t need minutes
Interviewer: Ok. So if you don’t need minutes I’ll give you a few seconds to look over and it and tell me which one stands out to you and which one you like? 
Speaker: The movement, the girl with an image, the girl with that.
Interviewer: Well not with the movement but with the style. As you can see this one has more line art. Words are popping out more. Motion graft texts aid in delivering the content. The next one you have more of a cartoon-like structure where there’s live-action video illustrated with drawings. And then the last one is more so like a blend with comic art and live action. So it’s more action packed kind of style to it. Given these three which one would you like to see from the video that we would be developing. 
Speaker: The first one, I like this. The second one, I like this. The third one, I like this.
Interviewer: If you had to choose one option that, one style for this video, which one of the three options would you choose?
24:17-Speaker: I mean is this acceptable? There’s only three at the bottom.
Interviewer: They’re just examples of how else….
Speaker: Yeah I like that. 
Interviewer: So you like option 1?
Speaker: For instance, you’re balancing. You’re balancing, you can be thinking of so many things while you balance or you can be thinking about nothing, and balance. Which one makes it easy? 
Interviewer: Ok. So option 1 sounds like the one for you. 
Speaker: Yes. 
Interviewer: Ok with that being said, what do you think the take-home message of the video should be? 
Speaker: I want to see it again. I like that. I wish I could see it again.
Interviewer: That should be the take home message?
Speaker: Absolutely. Because if you want to see something again, you’re really interested in it.