Speaker: Um if they are working, um…you know if you are talking about the adults being the patients um and not just the parents um… is that part of the scope or is it?
Interviewer: It’s more so the perspective of the child as the patient but the parents are still involved.
Speaker: Ok… so um you know if they have a lovey animal, you know a little lovey animal or a stuff animal that they bring with them you know, if it’s not too corny you can ask how the lovey is doing or the stuff animal so.
Interviewer: Yeah, and should they ask about how it worked for other kids?
Speaker: How who should ask?
Interviewer: Like should that a be like a question between maybe characters or should it be in the form of kind of a little snippet of an interview of kids explaining how its worked for them.
Speaker: I’m not completely sure they know what method is being used on them and I’m not quite sure it’s necessary that they know.
They just need something that works and helps them to uh navigate life better.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Do you think that there should be kids saying those things like its helped them, the feel better, and things of that sort?
Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer: What about how exposures work?
Speaker: Um I don’t think my daughter has done that.
I don’t know… I don’t know how to answer that one.
Interviewer: Ok.
Speaker: I guess exposure to me in my situation means that uh they… like my counselor is uh just incredibly good.
If there is a day like I don’t feel like talking, she draws me out easily and she knows how to get me to talk.
So for exposures she has me think of a memory and she has me put my… what’s the word, not my real finger, my um… psychological finger.
I don’t know how to say that.
So that to me the exposure is bringing old moods out into the open.
Interviewer: Yeah and for some other kids the disorder may be putting them in a situation where they must face their fears or something that’s bothering them so do you think that would be beneficial to show in the video?
Interviewer: Ok, so um again thanks for coming to meet with us today.
So basically what we’re doing here is we’re a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists that are working on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy.
It’s a kind of therapy that, you know, you guys have been doing with your therapist or therapists.
But for this project we really want to develop, um, basically a few short educational videos that describe what cognitive behavior therapy is for children and their parents.
Saying “cognitive behavior therapy” is kind of a mouthful, so from this point on I’ll just be saying CBT and that’s what I’m referring to.
Um, kind of, so the first thing we’re wondering is what comes to mind when you guys think of CBT?
Speaker: Um, for me I would say that CBT is kind of a learning process of how to take some kind of behavior that is not quite acceptable or something that you want to work on and baby steps and step it to a place where you rather prefer it to be to get to an end point.
Interviewer: Right.
Speaker: I took it as helping you stop a behavior that you have trouble stopping yourself.
Interviewer: Ok, excellent.
Could you tell me what you guys know about CBT, so like, in your own words how would you explain it?
Speaker: Um, for me CBT is a process of physical and or mental challenges to train yourself brain-wise to get to a place behavioral-wise, so you’re trying in a way to shift your brain to make your brain and your body do correct behavior so that you’re a happier brain person.