Interviewee: With the exception of you know encouraging someone to be patient and work through the system.
Again I think my circumstances coming into it was more of a panic of not knowing what to do and wanting, and having the faults of always wanting to fix things, and knowing that something can’t be fixed overnight.
Interviewer: Ok.
Try and think of three words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it.
Um and what would those words be, it’s kind of a hard question but.
Interviewee: Let’s see, CBT, first just thinking about it would be, I would say, challenging.
Um I would even say somewhat overwhelming because it’s just a different mindset which you’re not really familiar with what to do and to get sometimes when you work with CBT, a particular area it might be a very wide depth of personal time for physical stuff, whatever you have to do that part of it so, challenging, overwhelming, and I would say um also uplifting that there’s an option that kids can do to help themselves.
If they learn the tools of the CBT that they will always be able to instigate them when they need them and be able to move up and say that’s just another challenge that they are able or have the ability to go “this is just what I do.”
Our kids started at four, our daughter started at four and our son started at about seven, so it just like in our household it’s like it’s just another challenge; it’s just another thing we gotta do, and use your CBT to figure out where we’re gonna combat this.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: Um, I would start with hope.
There’s something that could address what the issue is, um introspection.
Yeah I feel like both my wife and I and our child had to think about our behaviors and why we are doing the behaviors we are doing at home and how they are contributing to my daughter’s behavior.
And um discipline, that um you got to learn to do your exercises or your process over and over again whether you need it or not at that very particular period of time
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: So um, discipline to um do the behavior
Interviewer: Ok.
Are there any pictures that come to mind when you think of those words or CBT?
Speaker1 – To me just from being in therapy so much all the time with the children, I think of holding hands or a hand reaching out to grab another hand because it’s like your giving a tool, a way of lie, a way to combat something that can be overwhelming, so somebody’s helping you, helping hand to lift you up and get you to that next step.
Interviewee: I like that, that’s good.
Um, I would also, um think I mean one of things that my daughter has said you know coming here has helped her is that she said she doesn’t feel alone and that she has um you know a realization now that um other kids that she might not know is going through the same thing and that there is someone here that can listen and help her and stuff like that so, um I don’t know if that’s a picture but like not being alone.
So however you might want to display that.
Interviewer: Um, so the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety.
If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life what would you say?
Interviewee: I would say anxiety would become a problem in your life if it affects, interferes with your normal, daily, ritual, routine lifestyle.
If it becomes that anxiety is the bigger beast in the day versus your normal chores, life, day that’s where CBT can come in ad go “let’s stop that and eliminate it and get you back to kind of a normal level of ups and downs” Everyone has ups and downs, you’re always going to but CBT helps you bring down the anxiety and get you on an even keel so you just deal with normal life.