Interviewer: Awesome. So moving on to how it’s going to look, so we’re still toying with the idea. We do have this right here has 3 different options of potential kind of [21:51] ___. So you can take a second and we’ll go over that, and I’m just curious of what your impressions of those 3 options are, like if there’s one that particularly stands out to you or you really hate one. There aren’t necessarily the only things. These are heavy contenders, basically.
Speaker: Yeah, yeah, not sure quite what I get from the one in the middle. Kind of getting this idea of something kind of beyond what’s inside of you. You want to think about too much math on the right. The one in the middle is a little cleaner I guess is kind of my first thought looking at it. The one on the left has got a lot going on there in terms of the picture.
Interviewer: _____ variation on the line art side of things.
Speaker: right, on the side of it on that, the people are all about the same
Interviewer: How about on the second page I think transitions a little bit more to a cartoony style.  [22:55] ___ kids, but what are your thoughts kind of on that style?
Speaker: I don’t know, I’m kind of big on the carton. Maybe the one in the middle. Maybe part of it is it’s easier to relate yourself to a cartoon than it is to… it’s hard to get a generic looking person. It’s a little harder to relate to a person when you’re looking at a picture. The cartoons, I think, have the advantage [23:24] ____
Interviewer: Right. How about for like a parent video? How do you feel about doing a cartoony style like option 2?
Speaker: Parents are different, right. For me, I grew up watching cartoons Saturday morning, so that was also my perspective on it, and I watch a few more now because they’re a little more mainstream, but um, I think they could relate. 
Interviewer: Again, I just wanted to thank you for participating in the research, and thank you for being with us today. Of course, you know what the CARTOONS study is about. Basically, we are creating educational videos describing what cognitive behavioral therapy is, it’s the kind of therapy that your child is receiving here, and cognitive behavioral therapy is so long, it’s such a tongue twister to really say, we’re going to be saying CBT, just to help out real quick with that. So to start out, please tell me what comes to mind when you first think about CBT? There’s no right answer.
Speaker: As the parent of the child in it?
Interviewer: Yeah, from your perspective. From what you know. I’m sure you’ve sat in on some sessions or he has homework and stuff like that, so just tell us, from your perspective, there’s no right or wrong answer, what you think CBT is. 
Speaker: Having help from somebody else to work through whatever issues you’re facing. 
Interviewer: When you sat in on the session, do you remember a time where you were explained to exactly what the treatment would look like or anything like that with CBT?
Speaker: Well, what goals they were going to work on, yes, not really in what way. 
Interviewer: Okay. Could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words, how would you explain what CBT is, if someone were to ask you?
Speaker: I don’t know a lot of specifics. It’s just good to have a professional, someone who’s not directly involved in the situation. They tend to give more worth to somebody else’s opinion, the child does, versus just mom or dad telling them what to do. 
Interviewer: When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what questions you had for the therapist?
Speaker: Not really. We had an experience previously where he basically refused to even speak. So it was like, “How was that going to work? How do you handle that?”