Speaker: So this part is going to, so you guys going to have the different version for different group age? So it’s not… it’s going to be one for every group age can watch?
33:34-Transcripted by Aqueena 
Interviewer: So I think we’re going to have one set of videos for children, and we’re still deciding if we’re going to make a separate set for parents. 
Speaker: Okay… well I think I like the third one.
Interviewer: The third one?
Speaker: The comic, yeah. Because with the first and second one, I feel like it’s going to be hard to target all the kids. Let’s say if you make something, it’s so hard to cover all ages. It might satisfy one age group, the first one, but especially the second one, I feel like it makes it so limited. It would be harder to connect with older ages. The first one I think you could have for kids in middle school age and have the scenario or another frame of video that is older kids, because it’s going to be difficult to target things that make both middle school and high school kids anxious. But for comic, I think it’s everyone, every age who can relate to it, and it makes it a little easier to make something that kids from elementary school, middle school, and high school can watch without feeling like, “Oh, it’s not for my age.” So that’s my thought. I think comic would make it a little bit easier to target all groups, all age groups. Whereas the second one I think is especially for older kids. The first one is fine I think, but I like the third one. 
Interviewer: Okay. Finally, what do you think the take home message for the video should be?
Speaker: It shouldn’t be something that parents feel like, “Oh there is something else I need to be worried about.” It should be something like, “Oh! That’s something I can make them feel like they want to do it!” they don’t feel like, “Oh, this is something else that needs planning of what I’m going to do,” because as parents, we have so many thing that we need to think about. So, if we make this something that’s going to be beneficial, it doesn’t really require a lot of planning from parents, then it makes it a lot easier. It makes it a lot more appealing for them to go and actually seek the help that is going to be available. I think that’s very important. So for me, if it’s something like, “Oh, I have to plan for it. Oh, I have to do this,” then I’m less likely to take the initiative. Whereas if it’s something simple like, “Oh! Everything is going to be there. Yes, I’m going to have some engagement, yes I’m going to be there, but most of it is going to be done through the therapy and by going every week or every two weeks, you’re going to actually check the progress. It’s not just going to be you feeling like, “Okay, am I seeing the progress or not?” it’s a collaboration, with the parent and the doctor or therapist.”
Interviewer: Okay, so just get them excited for therapy?
Speaker: Get them excited for therapy, not for them to feel like, “This is something extra you need to think about or plan for.” Make it easy. The second thing would be, just make it so that kids don’t feel like there’s something wrong with them which is why their parents are taking them to the doctor. No, no, no, it’s not like that. It’s like the way that teachers are helping us to grow academically and personally, so the therapist is going to help us in different aspects of our lives that we need help.