Interviewer: Okay. Alright.
Is there anything I missed?
Anything important that I haven’t asked about that you feel I need to know?
Interviewee: No, but I would say, and I mentioned this to the part there I think one time, that it occurs to me that there are a lot of people out there who have these kind of issues.
As I said, most families may not even give it a second thought and just gloss right over it, that’s the way I was, you know.
Finding a way to get the word out, to me, would seem to be critical in your guys’ situation, finding a way, in essence, to market it.
That probably… I don’t know… my kids go to a private school so I would treat things a little differently.
But I would say, you know, it’s a kind of thing at the beginning of school you’d like to have somebody get up who’s a therapist and say, “Look guys, we want you to enjoy school, but if you’re having these kind of things…” find a way to communicate it to people to where they’re not worried about coming to a counselor.
And I know all schools now a days have got different guidance counselors and things like that, or are supposed to be perceptive and picking up on all this stuff.
The reality is, they’re still going to be relying on ultimately on the kid coming to them when you’ve got hundreds, in some cases, thousands of kids in some of these schools.
So I don’t know if there was a way to show a video at the beginning of the year, or finding a way to get people to talk about this kind of stuff.
And I know to a certain extent, they do where my kids go to school.
They have small group type sessions, and they meet once a week, and they go over, “How’s everyone doing?
What are the problems?” But again, there’s still a stigma attached to it.
Somehow you’ve got to get over this stigma, which is why it’s finding a way to communicate, “Look, everybody’s got issues.
It’s common.”
In today’s world… maybe 30, 40, 50 years ago, we just sucked it up and dealt with it.
Any many of us may have problems today that we don’t know about, but finding a way to eliminate that kind of thing and that there is help available for something like this.
Yeah I think that if you can… again, CBT, I mean that makes it sound like a bad drug or some way of communicating that this isn’t really uh… it’s a big deal, yes, but it’s not a big deal to get help for it.
It could be the smallest things, just like I said, you’re afraid to raise your hand in class, that’s a real wimpy one, but you’re worried about what other people think about you.
Gosh, look at all the stuff we’ve got with online issues with Facebook and everything else.
You can see what people are blurring out.
You can tell most people got issues.
Sorry if you’re on Facebook.
So yeah, to me, when they first approached me about this, even when we were first starting our therapy, the one thing I thought about was, “Geez.
There are probably so many people out there, especially younger generations, who need help who don’t really know they need help, or if they did know they need help, their parents would just be like, “What are you talking about?
There’s nothing wrong with you.
I see you every day.
You look fine.
It’s the way you’ve always been.”
Not knowing that some of their behavior has impacted their ability to do things in school- it’s had an impact on their life.
So yeah… finding a way to deal with that stigma… finding a way to rephrase it, repackage it, show people that it’s common, and that there are ways to deal with it, and that they’re available.
To me, that’s a big, big deal finding, helping people.
The videos are great.
You may even have, if you can create a video, maybe it could even be something that you could put into a high school and watch… actually, even younger than that.
Middle school I guess… I mean they’re smart kids in middle school now.
Boy, I’m telling you, really smart.
So yeah, that would be a good idea, to get that information out there.