Interviewer: So we’re almost done and I really appreciate your time. We just have to go over the “how” the video would look. Just kind of the fun part of this. And then just kind of the take home message, then we should be done. So we talked about Loony Tunes before, are there any other animated movies that you like?
Interviewee: I mean everybody loves like; the minion stuff is like hilarious. And I also think like part of the reason why is because they’re not people. Like what are they, who even knows? So fun. It’s pretty entertaining, anything that have comedy is good. I use a lot of “brainpop”. I don’t know if you know that, it’s the robot and the girl in the classroom and they just love anytime they hear the robot noises they want like the MAKES_NOISE like he’s very squeaky and they want all the extra stuff.
Interviewer: So they like, like the little squeakiness of the robot.
Interviewee: Yeah. Even my math curriculum has like animated stuff. And little monsters, they like the monsters too but they like the robots.
Interviewer: I mean its good to know that that’s what they enjoy.
Interviewee: Boys and girls alike.
Interviewer: Pretty universal robot. So my examples are going to be a little different from those. But I’ll let you look at those at your leisure. We have three options there, so as you’re looking through them I’m going to ask you a couples questions first about your overall preference. So which one you like the most and then if you think kids would like something different from what you like.
Interviewee: This looks like older kids to me.
Interviewer: Option 3
Interviewee: This looks a little more mature like teens. This feels very vanilla to me.
Interviewer: Options two seems kind of vanilla?
Interviewee: Like its friendly but this one is the one I like the best. It seems more creative and youthful but also that’s what I’m drawn to.  I also really like it because you blend humans and I like anything that looks hand rendered and I think kids identify with that too.
Interviewer: So you like option 1 the best and you like the mixture of the animated and the hand drawn. You like that options personally the best but would that be the best for kids?
Interviewee:  I don’t know. These are softer and playful
Interviewer: Option 2 is a little bit softer. Ok. What do you think should be the take home message of these videos? We’ve kind of hit on this so… Unless I’m mistaken.
Interviewee: I feel like there’s so many buzzwords but you know it really is just like doable because you get results. You can see results. Nearly immediately without much doing on my part other than bringing my child here and getting him the space to be; whatever happens in there. And then just kind of being aware and I did get some tips like you can’t be so nice. Don’t be so reassuring or affirming. Just not like trying to fix everything. But like it really is doable; it’s not a hard thing to do or take a lot of resources to do other than time and money. So I think it’s pretty quick. User friendly. Again I didn’t have to as a parent lead things or keep up with a whole lot like it’s something that really empowered my child to own it and take it into her own hands for the most part.
Interviewer: That makes a lot of sense. You as a parent or you as a child that would be nice to get from the video.