Interviewer: how anxiety can become a problem in someone’s life or um what’s important to know just for someone who is experiencing those things?
Speaker: Its ok for you to get help.
You don’t have to live with the fear.
That fear that’s stalking or inside of you that feels so strong that’s going to overwhelm you every single day, you don’t have to live like that.
You don’t have to feel that and it’s not bad and it’s not wrong to ask for help to to find that help or ask a trusted adult to help you find that adult that assistance.
Interviewer: Awesome and so could you tell me any skills or specific areas that CBT targets.
I know we talked about anxiety, but is there anything else that comes to mind.
Speaker: Depression.
I know um post-traumatic stress disorder is also kind of part of the anxiety but that helps as well.
I don’t know the answer whether or not CBT can solve problems in people who are genetically predisposed which my kids are and I am due to my mom’s history.
So there’s probably a psychiatric medicine type component that may need to be included and again there is no shame in that.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and so would you say that it targets thoughts feelings and actions.
Speaker: Yes
Interviewer: And are there any questions you wished you would have asked before you started CBT or your daughter?
Speaker: No I before... I was going through CBT before either of my kids started and I kind of landed to it not really knowing what it was and it’s probably what has saved my life.
I grew up feeling suicidal the whole way through even as an adult.
Even though I never actually did anything, I never wanted to be alive.
CBT has helped me find more joy in everyday life and even though I still struggle and will probably continue struggling um I know I can choose not to let it overwhelm me.
I have been given some tools to deal with the pain, the frustration, the anxiety, all of the things that are wound up in anxiety and depression.
Interviewer: So would you say before starting it was really you… your question is what is this because you were going into not really knowing what to expect.
Speaker: I interviewed several therapists and counselors beforehand and at the time I was faculty at UF.
So I didn’t want someone who was affiliated with UF at first because I thought that it would be too humiliating and um I’ve had bad experiences with psychologists as a child.
Um tried some family therapy and it was… it was too much anger, too much pain, and it didn’t do any good.
I was afraid of the stigma of going to see someone for your mental health, not mental health, but for your emotional wellbeing.
So really there was a women who incense burning in her room and she had Buddhist practically written everywhere and it was a big turn off and um you know the rooms here are comfortable.
They are not beautifully decorated you know, but they’ve got nice pictures you know.
You know that you are in a safe place and a safe... the people I’ve met here are patient and thoughtful, positive, and um just helpful so.
Interviewer: And what is your involvement in your child’s overall CBT therapy?
Speaker: So her counselor or her psychologist lately like for the last several visits has invited me into the sessions maybe for 10-15 minutes to let her know what I think should be covered because sometimes my daughter forgets mention certain things or just flat out doesn’t want to talk about it.
I don’t know.
So she tries to get my perspective first and then I leave and go back to the waiting area and then they can discuss things.