Interviewer: So we touched a little bit on this piece, about what they should talk about, but like further going into that, what types of questions should be asked or answers should be had?
Interviewee: Somebody who’s looking at this… hmm… I’m not sure about that. I’d say I’m not sure about that.
Interviewer: Should there be an explanation perhaps of how anxiety becomes a problem? Is that something that would be useful?
Interviewee: Yeah I think… or that there’s help out there to improve those things. It’s not something that you should just… it’s not necessarily something that you can just deal with on your own. You might need some help.
Interviewer: So like recognizing it as an issue.
Interviewee: Right, like if you want to be a professional football player, you’re probably going to recognize you need training, you need coaches; there’s a lot of things you can do that can help you. Maybe there’s some analogy there too… you know, it’s like in therapy can help you… there’s somebody there… you can definitely improve what you’re doing. There’s definitely probably more sports analogies you can give for kids, there might be other analogies kids or parents could relate to that scenario where you wouldn’t think twice about getting help. If I wanted to learn tennis I would certainly want to hire a teacher rather than sit out there by myself trying to figure it out. So, in this case here, going into a therapist or somebody who can help you figure these things out a lot easier than trial and error.
[PAUSED]
Interviewer: Right, right. How about discussing how it’s worked for others? I think you kind of mentioned that a little bit earlier. At least in your opinion, you saw that it’s been effective. Do you think that’s worth discussing?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. I think it’s been effective, just kind of watching it in my family, and yeah- I think so. When it came out that was the big excitement, CBT- there was a method that could perhaps give a lot faster improvements than the other forms of therapy did before that. That was the appeal I heard about originally, “Wow, there’s something that actually might have noticeable benefits that doesn’t take 10 years of laying on a couch,” and there’s no laying on a couch, as far as I know, too.
Interviewer: Should there be discussion about exposures and how they work?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so. I think it’s something people can quickly understand how that would work, like you’re having trouble with something- I talk about anxieties, that’s one I’m more familiar with- and the idea of exposing yourself gradually to that. Eventually you can be exposed to higher and higher levels.
Interviewer: What about from a parent perspective? What types of things should be discussed on what is helpful for parents to do versus what’s not helpful for parents to do?
Interviewee: I had this discussion before with a therapist, and myself as a parent kind of frustrated like, “I don’t know what to do,” is where a kind of found myself is like yeah, I want to help my children, but I can’t figure out how to do it, and the one answer I got back that I liked was, “Coming here, that was a good idea.” You find yourself maybe not… there’s help out there, let’s put it that way. Definitely you want to be involved as a parent. You don’t just want to drop your kids off and pick them up at the end of therapy.
Interviewer: So it sounds like involvement’s important, actually being a figure and being a part of the team.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.