Speaker: Um I don’t know…. I’m not totally fond of that idea.
Interviewer: Ok, the second is more of what you would typically see as a cartoon. Something that you see, there are a lot of YouTube videos, instructional videos. That type of style.
Speaker: Interesting. I don’t know I mean I guess I’m…. I don’t know. I guess I’m not necessarily overly excited about the idea of um… I don’t know potentially maybe the vector art. I don’t know I guess I’m just… I can understand that. I just don’t understand why you need the other things rather than just having individuals, children talk about it.
Interviewer: So it sounds like more of just kind of like doing general filming without having special effects. Do you think it’s sufficient?
Speaker: I don’t know. It certainly would be my preference.
Interviewer: It would be your preference. Okay.
Speaker: I mean if I’m looking at stuff. I think I just fine it. I don’t know distracting.
Interviewer: ok, ummm what should the take home message of the videos be? Like if there was one thing to really emphasize.
Speaker: Well I think the thing to take home is that it works and that it takes time…. You are not going to lose anything from trying. It is a collaboration between individual and parents and the you know the therapist. It’s not going to work out without all three being involved.
Interviewer: Ok! Is there anything you want to add in terms of wrapping up? Any last thing you think is important for us to know…
Speaker: I don’t think I’m an average... I don’t think I’m uh… I think I have a larger role. I may know more than what most parents will know so I think that I have a skewed perspective.
Interviewer: There is obviously going to be varying levels of parents and they come and go and it’s important getting all those different perspectives. Thanks so much for talking. I appreciate it.
Interviewer: Thanks so much for meeting with me today. I’m part of research team that’s looking at Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, it’s the therapy that we do here at this clinic. With this project, we want to create some short educational videos talking about cognitive behavioral therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful, so I’m just going to refer to it as CBT throughout the video. Okay? So let’s start. Can you just kind of tell me what goes through your mind when you think about CBT?
Speaker: Sorry we were joking about the stuff they sell at the gas station… So helping people to learn to recognize wrong thinking… or learning in a way to manage the way you think.
Interviewer: So learning ways to manage how you think. So it sounds like there’s definitely a lot of… a lot of it is about thoughts, would you say?
Speaker: Yes. I would say yes.
Interviewer: When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, did you have any questions about what it looked like?
Speaker: I did not. I mean I had heard of it before.
Interviewer: Okay. From where had you heard it from before?
Speaker: When I first started hearing about it, it was after the Gulf War. It developed as a way to kind of help you deal with stress after post-traumatic stress and such. I’ve known others who have kind of used it as a way of therapy.
Interviewer: Okay, so have you had conversations with other people about CBT?
Speaker: A little bit, yes.
Interviewer: What information from them did you receive, about this treatment?
Speaker: Not a whole lot other than the basic idea that it’s kind of helping a person recognize maybe when they’re not thinking correctly or helping recognizing experiencing symptoms that may be not quite right, like anxiety- you learn to recognize the symptoms of anxiety and learn how to manage those a little better.