Interviewer: How would you feel about doctors or therapist treating them? Would you also include them in these videos?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so. I mean I think I would not start with therapist. I would start with patients and their parents.
Interviewer: So parents are important too.
Interviewee: If it’s appropriate for age. I mean I guess that questions what age you are talking about.
Interviewer: So I think just for some information it’s meant to be designed for 10 to 16 year olds which is arrange because obviously 10 year olds differ a lot from 16 year olds and there also the parents on top of it.
Interviewee: Yeah I would just make sure to have an age range of kids. I would start with the kids and their experience and then I would only you know… I guess it depends on who you are trying to convince. If you are trying to bring in kids then I would have them talk about their experiences first.
Interviewer: For the parental side, what do you think would be best for like a parent?
Interviewee: I think… yeah seeing kids and other parents is good.  [UNDERSCORE] parental experience in there as well.
Interviewer: In terms of setting, is there anything in particular that kind of stands out as a setting for the video to take place in?
Interviewee: Um well I would say more.  I would personally think it would be better if it were an individual’s home rather than clinical settings or… yeah that would be my thought. I don’t know. I’m not sure I would think of
Interviewer: I’m curious can you tell me why you lean towards like the home as opposed to a medical office or to a doctor’s office.
Interviewee: Well 99% of your time you are in the home. 99% of the time you are dealing with issues there.  [UNDERSCORE] and your looking how is your life going to be outside of there you know.  I think it’s maybe appropriate when you are talking to a clinician or whoever and say ok you know these are tools we used, these are the things we do, or whatever. We have that in a clinical setting, but I think putting people in a clinical setting turns them into patients rather than people. So I think if you want to appeal to people put in a home setting, not a clinical setting.
Interviewer: It’s not medicalized
Interviewee: Yup. They are not patients. They are people.
Interviewer: In that line uh kids especially are spending a lot of time in school. How would you feel like school being in the background?
Interviewee: I mean school would be an appropriate environment. I think sometimes though these... I think it would need to be dependent on what the specific anxiety is or specific issue that they are dealing with. I don’t think especially that age, I don’t know. Middle school for sure. I’m not sure.  I mean I think are… less likely to be open about their issues that they are dealing with so. I think it can even be anxiety producing for some individuals. I think you know to some extent it would helpful to have it in a safe at least or what would be perceived as a safe environment for children.