Interviewee: No, my wife is the one that got him started and kept up with it because I thought we were working on a total attention deficit until she told me.
Interviewer: That’s completely fine.
When you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember any questions you had and what you knew about CBT prior to?
Interviewee: The questions was does it have to be everyday does he have to miss school so much?
Interviewer: Ok.
Were there any other questions other than that?
Interviewee: I was wondering if it was going to work.
Interviewer: Fair.
How much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet or other people?
Interviewee: Not very much.
Interviewer: Ok.
So thinking about your experience were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing for you?
Interviewee: No patient; I mean each instructor, each therapist was very clear in explaining what they were doing.
Interviewer: Ok.
Perfect.
What would you want to tell somebody who was about to start cognitive behavior therapy?
Interviewee: Like I would tell the m it works.
Like I said I was very hesitant at first to seeing how much time it consumes to be in this type of therapy.
And I was shocked at how quick it works.
Interviewer: So that’s what you would tell someone who was about to start?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Ok.
Think of three words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it.
What would those words be?
Interviewee: I was confused because I didn’t know what it was to begin with.
I have never really looked for it in a person so I never got to see it yet it was right there in my son.
So I don’t know the three words.
Interviewer: So if you could think of three words, three words that came to mind, do you think of any of; can you think of any?
Interviewee: I could think of the results but three words.
Interviewee: Anything that came to mind when you first learned about it when you were sitting there, maybe in session, maybe it was post talking to your child.
Interviewee: I didn’t know how complex it was.
Interviewer: So complex is one?
Interviewee: Yes.
Uh, I didn’t have much faith until he started to put it into practice and then I was pleased.
Interviewer: So we have complex is one.
Can you think of any other two by chance?
Interviewee: It was educational.
Interviewer: Ok.
Complex and educational.
Interviewee: Yes and you have to have patience.
Interviewer: So it sounds like your three words are complex, educational, and the third word would be describing how you felt when you learned about CBT
Interviewee: I was overjoyed.
Interviewer: Overjoyed.
Ok. So complex, educational, overjoyed sound like the three words that describe how you felt.
Interviewee: Yes, as he went through it yes.
Interviewer: Ok sounds good.
If you were to add a picture to each of these words what would it look like?
So pictures of complex, what would that look like?
What would a vision of complex look like?
Interviewee: It would be a little boy looking at a brief case and not realizing that someone was coming to the door and as it went on he knew what was coming in through the door without worrying about the briefcase.
That almost happened with my son.