Interviewer: Ok, so now that we talked about that, we need to decide where they talk, the environment; so the setting.
Would it be home, school, a doctor’s office, or maybe somewhere outside like a park?
What settings are you thinking of?
Interviewee: That uh, every setting is the opening to the story.
So you know, not in an office.
It’s like who wants to watch?
I did many commercials in my life and I think outdoors, I think where everyone is relieved to look at something.
Who feels relieved when they walk into a doctor’s office or in a room like this?
You know, I mean like when we did commercials it always had to be a colorful, bright, cheery atmosphere to begin with.
Then you could put anything into that.
Interviewer: Ok.
So after we talked about that, let’s talk more about what the characters would talk about in the video.
Right, so we’ve talked about CBT, but what would we want, what should they find out about the CBT explanations?
How should they talk about, like would you want to hear them ask questions about how CBT has worked for other kids?
Interviewee: A little bit.
You know I would like to see examples.
You know examples of; like I said my son was stuck because he put his bag down and it was all messed up and he tried looking at it and looking at it because it wasn’t to his standards.
You know I’d like to see him put his book down, glance at it and that’s it.
The result of it you know and it’s like I did a commercial once and they booked me as the assistant director in the commercial and they couldn’t get it done and it was about a girl coming up a pool very sexy and they wanted to see things from her but it was a minor, I think the girl was only sixteen, even though she looked like she was twenty.
And they couldn’t get the look on her face without talking about sex or anything that was part of it.
So jumped in the pool with her and we were talking and getting to know each other and finally I said “ok” and this was in the swamps too so it wasn’t a pool and I said “ok hey you know the feeling of you taking a nice hot shower and your coming out of the water, you know how that feels?
Now come out of the water and feel like someone just turned the cold water on you.
Let’s see your face” And we did it and instantly we got the shot.
And the director said “you didn’t talk about anything sexy Sid?” and I said “No I didn’t” you see that look; that shiver that she had came from that.
And so just looks, in a commercial, in visual things, you can do so many things so quickly, so easily.
Interviewer: Do you think that the video should talk about the explanation of how, the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life?
Interviewee: Yes it should be in there, it should be in there.
Interviewer: Do you believe that they, the characters in the video should discuss how exposures work?
Interviewee: Yes, but that’s putting an awful lot in there.
I mean for example.
My son would put his phone, whatever, right here and I can see him sitting there, looking at it.
Then the next scene I could see him putting a leg up, knocking over, catching it and just holding it and putting it and all of the sudden he doesn’t even look at it anymore.
He caught it and was like wow what a difference?
Sitting there, staring at it.
I mean you can do so much with video, so quickly.