Interviewer: So you mentioned recognizing symptoms of anxiety like heart racing and the reflective piece of utilizing the skills that CBT has brought.
Are there any other skills or specific areas that CBT seems to target that seems to help build… or any thoughts or feelings or actions?
Interviewee: Well I think it is sort of a practice, realizing that it’s something that you have to work out.
It isn’t a practice, it is almost just part of your regular health just like you need to eat food to sort of… you need to move your body.
It’s like a part of your brain that you also have to connect with and maintain like a health sort of balance.
So things that she’s identified for herself that sort of help her balance herself out emotionally and mentally are all things that she uses on a regular basis and makes sure she has, you know, almost like self-medicating in a way.
Using different, you know, breathe, tapping, she does the tapping sometimes.
Things that she can do.
She knows music, she uses music to change things or… I guess it’s just- it’s kind of just general practices that she’s had to work into where it becomes literally its part of her everyday almost.
So it’s like setting yourself up for success in a way.
Whereas before, she would try to set herself up for success by avoiding anything she recognized as a trigger.
So instead it’s almost like I’m going to take care of myself in these ways and if she ever notices, you know, I’m starting to feel these certain things, she used to get crazy headaches, and you know, just aches and pains even all throughout her body but just kind of setting the stage for success for herself in a mental way like incorporating a few of those things, I think.
Did I answer your question again?
I forgot where we were going.
Interviewer: No you did.
You gave me some very specific skills so that was perfect.
So it sounds like she had some specific skills and it sounds like also kind of getting rid of some avoidance.
Interviewee: Alright, good… yeah.
Interviewer: It sounds like that used to be kind of the coping strategy but not-
Interviewee: Yeah.
Well yeah and there’s also the there’s no more reassurance.
There’s no more justifying and this very well could happen.
So you just have to kind of own it like am I choosing to go out in the world and have a life and participate?
Because the other options is just to stay in here and be stuck in there with the what ifs, the it’s going to, that may never play out like that kind of thing...
Yeah, so you have to kind of be- and I think that’s the whole premise right?
It’s kind of like you face it in a small little way and then you get some sort of alright I’m going to take a little bigger bite the next time.
Okay, and okay so that did happen and I’m still okay.
You know, that kind of, you know, has given her sort of a framework to work through things in a supported way.
But also what to do when you’re not here with a bunch of support.
How to support yourself long-term.
Interviewer: As much as in clinic but also outside in the real world.
Interviewee: Right, yeah.