Interviewer 1: So first, we need to decide who will be in the video. So what characters do you think we should include?
Speaker: Uh, I think parents should be there. Um, kids, parents definitely. Um … I think with um bullying being so common at the school, perhaps a scene at the school would be something. Like uh a classroom or playground where kids interact with other, you know other kids. Um, some of the uh anxiety might come from kids not feeling like that they’re not going to be accepted or feeling like oh I can’t say this because with my daughter, uh one thing that we tried to work on through the occupational therapy was that you shouldn’t care as much about what others think about you, or your thought. If you feel like that this is the right thing to say, you should say it. So I think it would be great if there is, if there is a scene that there are kids that are talking about, you know, um I don’t know, uh a subject. And if the kids think it’s the right thing to say, they shouldn’t feel like oh I’m going to be judged. And then uh uh so they could be able to say it without the fear of being judged or being bullied.
Interviewer 1: Okay, so kids have the confidence to say what they believe is right?
Speaker: Yeah, exactly.
Interviewer 1: Okay. Um and you said, you mentioned that they should talk at school. Do you think there should be other scenes at like the home or the doctor’s office?
Speaker: I think that would help too, doctor’s office because then kids don’t uh feel like oh I’m going to see a doctor you know, it becomes like uh, you want to make it like it’s not such a big deal. But some kids might think oh what’s wrong with me that I want to see a doctor? I’m healthy, there is nothing wrong with me. I think uh making it comfortable, making it like uh like it’s not such a big deal. The person is just going to be like, you know, someone like your parent, a parent, a teacher, that is going to help with the, with your anxiety, for example. So create the connection that uh kids have with teacher, they can have it with their therapist as well.
Interviewer 1: That’s great. Um, so now we should decide what they will talk about. So you’ve already started mentioning this, how we should talk about what CBT is in simpler terms, but what other questions do our characters need to ask and answer?
Speaker: Um … you mean uh in understanding what CBT is?