Speaker: …A parent, you know, like a parent-child relationship could be… at home or even in a vehicle. I know a lot of parents, you know, that’s where they spend a lot of time with their kids. 
Interviewer: In the car. Going to school. 
Speaker: In the cars. Right. 
Interviewer: Okay. So now that we have the setting and the characters, we have to decide what they would be talking about. So we’ve already started talking about CBT itself. So what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and get answered?
Speaker: That I don’t know. Because I didn’t know anything about it. It was just a last-ditch effort because… [NAME REDACTED] was a disaster. I… I mean [NAME REDACTED] was falling apart.
Interviewer: So should they find out about CBT- about the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life? So should they talk about anxiety itself and how it becomes an issue?
Speaker: I think that’s a great idea. I mean, I wish- I wish somebody… had, you know, said something to us before [NAME DEDACTED] had reached the point that she did, you know. 
Interviewer: So now we get to decide how the video will look so we have a couple of examples. Here, and I’ll let you look through them. There’s 3 choices, so you can look through these and tell me what you like about them, what you don’t like about them, and what you think would be the best choice for our video-videos. 
Speaker: I don’t like the… option 2. 
Interviewer: So the vector art?
Speaker: Yeah… I don’t know that option 1 with interview style is going to do well with… kids though. Getting kids to pay attention. 
Interviewer: And the third option?
Speaker: That’s kind of comic book style which would… I think kids will like. 
Interviewer: So you would say that the 3rd option is your favorite? Or…
Speaker: Yeah. 
Interviewer: How-why do you like the comic book idea. So you said you like this one the best, what makes this one the best one?
Speaker: I think kids are… into- not so much teenagers these days but… the younger kids are into reading comic books. Books, not the actual comic book style but comic book style books. These days. So, you know, it’ll catch their attention as far as the graphics go. My 7-year-old, that’s her favorite is the comic book style books. 
Interviewer: So option 3 it is. So, now that we’ve figured out how it would look and where it would be, who’s in it. What do you think the take home message of the videos should be? 
Speaker: …That it’s definitely okay to get… help and support. You know, I still think there’s some sort of stigma attached with therapy and counseling for a lot of people which is ridiculous. Not only that and you know… I don’t know maybe some of the benefits? 
Interviewer: Okay. 
Speaker: I don’t know how to work all that in but.
Interviewer: Of course. So circling back around to that 3 word question. Now that we’ve talked a bit about CBT, do you think you could- do you think you could think of 3 words that you would use to describe CBT and how you feel about it?
Speaker: How I- excuse me, how I feel about it now or how I felt about it then?
Interviewer: I think either or, you know, you’ve experienced it with your daughter so how does it make you feel? 
Speaker: How does it make me feel? Hopeful. 
Interviewer: Okay. 
Speaker: Three words… Three words should not be hard to find… 
Interviewer: So hopeful is a good one. So if you can’t think of 2 other ones, it’s okay. But if you could add a picture to your word, hopeful, for CBT. What would it be? 
Speaker: Just one picture.
Interviewer: Whatever you can give me. 
Speaker: Me and [NAME REDACTED] sitting on the couch like this.