Interviewer: Well thank you for your feedback and thank you again for participating in this.
I know it took time out of your day but we really appreciate it.
And hopefully we can get a lot of feedback from this and develop an educational video to explain a lot of this to future patients in a way they can understand before they start therapy.
Speaker: But I think you understand me and think you can sit there with someone who’s doing the art and your conception is so on that you can say “that’s not going to work.”
You can say it and you have to do it.
Interviewer: Well thank you for your time again.
Interviewer: Thank you for meeting up with us today.
So we’re working with a group of psychologists and psychiatrists, basically trying to get feedback about people’s experiences, patient’s experiences about the work that we do here, the therapy, more specifically cognitive behavioral therapy, and I’ll be saying CBT because it’s a lot to say cognitive behavioral therapy, so I’ll be saying that.
We want to develop a few short educational videos that will help future patients and parents understand exactly what CBT is, especially the therapy for the children.
So to start off, please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT.
Speaker: Well in my daughter’s case, its anxiety issues.
Being around other people, what other people think about her; she’s always thinking about that.
Interactions with other people, going into places, like a dressing room, for instance in a store, she just feels very comfortable about doing that.
In some cases she doesn’t feel like she belongs there; she’s not worthy.
Another example is she was getting rewards at school, and she didn’t think she was worthy of getting them.
She didn’t want to get up in front of people.
So that’s kind of what I think of.
In essence, I guess it’s another disorder, and I guess that’s how I look at it.
Interviewer: Could you tell me about what you know about CBT?
In your own words, explain what CBT is, that’s cognitive behavioral therapy.
Speaker: Well behavioral therapy… cognitive thinking about your behavior.
So I would assume we’re talking about how we’re addressing people who have behavioral issues thinking.
Which for me goes back to my daughter’s anxiety.
Is that essentially what you’re looking for?
Interviewer: So I can’t answer the questions, it’s more so getting your complete perspective about what you know about CBT and therapy.
Speaker: Outside of just my experience here, I haven’t done a lot of research into it.
I mean in all honesty, I was probably the one most unaware in my family of what was going on with my daughter.
To me, it’s like what I was seeing was so different than what I was seeing with my other daughter, and really had no idea.
It was more of a daughter- mother communication that was going on initially, then I got included.
So it can be, I think, very difficult to assess, and I see my daughter probably more than my wife does because I’m a stay at home dad, basically feeding and getting them off from school, and everything else, so yeah, pretty much…