Interviewer: Okay. So if you can’t think of 2 other words, that’s alright. But hopeful is a good one. So that’s all the questions I have. Do you think there is anything that I missed or anything important that you wanted to talk about CBT?
Speaker: It’s been extremely helpful for NAME.
Interviewer: Fantastic
Speaker: It really has.
Interviewer: Well, I think that’s it. Thank you so much for participating.
Interviewer: Alright, thanks so much for meeting with me today. I am with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists working on a project to make videos about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the therapy that’s done here at this clinic. So cognitive behavior therapy is a mouthful, so I’m going to refer to it as CBT throughout this interview and we just want to get your perspective and your general thoughts about the therapy. So to start, could you tell me what comes to mind when you think of or hear CBT?
Speaker: CBT? Um well it is a technique used for the treatment of variety psychiatric psychological disorders where you try to use graded… graded and guided approaches to modify the responses and the anxiety associated with particular types of responses often through exposure or other sorts of I guess controlled environments and providing a safe environment for individuals to…I guess uh… become cognitively aware of their physiological responses to adverse stimuli that cause them anxiety or distress.
Interviewer: So that sounds like there’s, to sum everything up, it sounds like there are a lot of skills that are learned in CBT and that these are things are used to challenge anxiety.
Speaker: Well I think… I mean I think the goal of it is to ultimately give individual… I guess tools whether they’re behavioral tools to help deal with you know whatever their adverse reactions are or their anxieties to teach them approaches and method that will work for them when they are not there. So I think there are combinations of both… you know guided exposures, but then also demonstrating how they can utilize those in the future.  ___ it can be used alone or in combination with…You know pharmacological therapy.
Interviewer: It sounds like yeah a lot of ways and techniques that you can combat anxiety with CBT. So speaking of anxiety, one of the major goals of cognitive behavior therapy is to kind of challenge anxiety. In your own words, if someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes problematic in someone’s life, how would you response? What would your explanation of that be?
Speaker: Well I think anxiety if it leads to an adverse effect on your welfare whether that yours ability to function in school or in work or their home life or in their relationships then I would say that the anxiety is of you know concern. I think that can be difficult to define. How does anxiety specifically lead to adverse effects? I think that it depends on the different type of anxiety and what they and what their specifically concerned about…  _____ it sort of depends on, but overall how it affects the individual and their function.
Interviewer: Could you give me some examples of potentially how because I know you mention that it does varies on the anxiety. What are some ways you think that could look like?
Speaker: Social anxiety if you are anxious about social interaction it could lead you to avoid situations where you are going to have to interact with individuals and… so that could make it difficult for you at work or more extreme cases. You know not being able to carry out normal daily functions. So I think those are one type of anxiety.
Interviewer: Sounds like it affects multiple things. You are mentioning work, school, and relationships.
Speaker: mmhm yeah yeah. I mean it can manifest primarily in one or the other.
Interviewer: That’s where you say it varies based upon the person really.
Speaker: I think also anxiety can often contribute to other psychiatric disorders like depression. It could coincident with other disorders… exacerbate their… manifestations.