Interviewer: Ok. Are there things you wish you knew of that either it took time for you to learn or you still may not know the answer to?
Speaker: Well I think one of the things is that it’s not like a once and done sort of thing. That’s it’s an ongoing process. That even though you may deal with one particular anxiety that you know a very similar patters can arise in other so… it’s you know there could a whack-a-mole sense sometimes so it’s not like they are going to come in and get the course of CBT and they are going to get cured and their lives are going to be perfect from then on. So I think that it’s an ongoing process that and that you may need to come back for a tune up or whatever you deal with that. So I think understanding that it’s an ongoing process and you know yeah and that it will require active participation on the part of the parents. It’s not something like you just say here take care of my kid. It’s not how it works. It’s more like a partnership.  I think kind of explaining that and sort of the expectations of the parents. It not like even with drugs I mean it’s not like ok here. I think the other things is that it’s not an either or choice.  I think a lot of people parents sort of have this preconception that’s it either drugs or CBT and it’s not. It’s doesn’t need to be an either or. I mean I don’t know the statistics on how often it is combined but you know so I think that’s important to know as well as. This is a part of…
Speaker: He ran away?
Speaker: He ran away. Yeah
Speaker:  Screw this
Speaker: Oh man
Speaker: Sorry
Speaker: Alright, I’m heading out. Do you want me to get food on the way home?
Speaker: Probably yeah
Speaker: Okay. Bye
Speaker: Bye
Speaker: How long are you guys going to be.
Interviewer: 5 to 10 minutes at most.
Speaker: OK not along, bye
Interviewer: So that’s actually a... well another question I had about this side of topics… if you had to describe CBT in three words, how would you describe it?
Speaker: CBT in three words.
Interviewer: Without saying CBT…. Or maybe three alternatively three words that come to mind in general when thinking about it.
Speaker: Controlled exposure to reduce anxiety. That’s more than three. Controlled exposures or anxiety.
Interviewer: Okay. So very much about the exposure side in terms of dealing with anxiety. It’s kind of the big thing that comes to mind when you think about it.
Speaker: It is yeah. I mean I know that’s a component of it.
Interviewer: Ok um so I want to transition a little bit as I said at the beginning we’re making some videos. A lot of these questions are meant to guide the creation of the videos, but more explicitly I wanted to ask you know… these videos were meant to be for the general audience we potentially may have parental videos and then kid videos or it may just be that they’re both um, but from your perspective who do you think should be in these videos? Like what type of characters should be included?
Speaker: What type of character?
Interviewer: Right so you know and thinking about this should there be non-human characters and animals. Should there be…
Speaker: No I don’t, no. I think it depends on your audience. For young children maybe you know. Animation or whatever, but for anybody 12 or older I would think that most compelling is going to be individuals who have gone through it talk about their experiences or whatever. That would be my thought
Interviewer: Ok, so people who have gone through it. So like patients it sounds like. Patients who have experienced this.
Speaker: mmhmm, yeah.