Interviewer: Yeah so from personal experience you didn’t really have any questions. You kind of knew what to expect. 
Speaker: Right. Well for… I didn’t know what to expect for her specifically. So it’s been interesting to watch the changes happen.
Interviewer: Yeah, and how much did you know about CBT from movies, the media, TV, other people, and if so did this match yours or your child’s experience?
Speaker: So would this involve mindfulness as well or...?
Interviewer: Yeah 
Speaker: Ok. I mean I can think of a Star Trek movie that indicated being in the moment and how I can relate that to slowing down time and getting things to work differently or better. Say the question one more time.
Interviewer: Yeah um so how much did you learn or hear about CBT from movies, TV, internet, media, any of those outside sources?
Speaker: Um there… I’m a Christian so there are a couple of Christian songs that indicate breathing techniques you know slow down,  appreciate where you are, and take a breath, or take a deep breath and hold on. So songs definitely, movies a couple of movies specifically that Start Trek one I don’t remember the name of it. It was with Jean Picard. Um TV, I don’t watch TV much so I cants say much to that um and most people do not talk about therapy so I can’t say that it was anything from what someone said.
Interviewer: Um so what was described in the Star Trek movie and some of the songs you heard? Do those thing being described match yours and your daughter’s experiences with CBT? 
Speaker: Part of it yeah. 
Interviewer: And thinking about yours and your child’s experience was there anything about CBT that was confusing?
Speaker: About the… I didn’t know how… didn’t know the method um and they didn’t tell me. I mean they told me it was a CBT based therapy, but I had go find out what CBT was because they weren’t going to tell me how they were going to work with me or my daughter so. Kind of had to find out along the way.
07: 27 Interviewer: mmh yeah so really like the method, the process was what was confusing.
Speaker: I do have to say that learning the breathing techniques at first, or actually for a while and for some people, I know it was very strange so I’ve been through DBT as well and um some people I remember just seemed to think that it was just more Buddhist type of an activity and I know I also sort of thought that as well because some of the… if you say the word meditation if you are talking to kids from strong Christian background, people who do still go to church although it seems like we are dwindling group um, it’s a little put offish in way. You have to make yourself overcome the way it sounds to accept the way it works.
interviewer: Right, ok awesome and what would you want to tell someone who is about start CBT?
Speaker: Give it time to work. If it feels weird the first time in the first session its ok. It’s not just talk therapy. There is a purpose for it. There is a goal in mind. You are not just going to be stuck in talk therapy forever so give it three to five sessions before you make a strong opinion about what it is and how it is affecting your child’s behavior. 
Interviewer: So being patient and knowing that it truly is a goal-oriented type practice.
Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer: Ok awesome and if you could think of three words to describe CBT when you first learned about it, what would those be?
Speaker: I’m thinking. 
Interviewer: Take your time
Speaker: Calmness, reframing… all I can think about are sentences um… I can’t think of another word. I can think of mindfulness… being in the moment. I don’t know how to say that in one word.