Interviewer: Awesome and what would be useful for other parents to know that maybe have a child that is about to go into CBT or is in CBT?
Speaker: Be patient. Love your child no matter what. Sometimes we are the cause of some of their problems and we don’t realize it and hopefully the therapist or the counselor would let us know somehow. Although there have been certain times where I would say something or do something I meant it in a way to keep my child safe or I’m trying to protect her from something, but she doesn’t have that perspective. She feels like she is being restricted or um that I’m being mean to her and so her counselor knew after talking with me individually sometimes with my daughter in the therapy and me out in a separate room quickly, I would let her know what my perspective was and she knew I wasn’t trying to be a jerk. I was trying to do the right thing for my child. So that helped her be able to help my daughter realize that I was coming from a place of concern and she was possibly you know you got let the child feel the way they are going to feel, but help them realize that the parent has a different view of things and has different experiences and is trying to be helpful. It opens up communication between the parent and the child.
Interviewer: Yeah. So would you say it would be useful for parents to know to have open communication between the child and the therapist? To be patient and stuff like that.
Speaker: And if they have concerns that the therapist needs to know about to make sure that they are not afraid to talk to the therapist or you know to just you know touch them on the shoulder or something and say can I talk to for just a minute. Tell me if I’m taking this the wrong way and it’s helpful for both the child and the parent. 
Interviewer: Yeah definitely. And have you read or heard any scientific research that has mentions CBT, and if so or if not do you think this something useful for us to mention in our videos?
Speaker: Research on CBT. I don’t think I have which is unusual for me actually. Um would it be useful? It is always useful to back up what you say with research. You don’t necessarily need to say Millers, Smith, and Johnson at al. 1996 and their landmark study. You don’t have to cite it that way but in literature maybe suggest sources, reputable websites, and reputable sources of information whether it’s printed or electronic that parents and/or kids can look at. 
Interviewer: Yeah
Speaker: That’s always useful. Always whatever you do, I’m a scientist, you have to back up your claims otherwise its one person’s opinion versus another.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and did you know about anybody else’s experiences of CBT any time in your life?
Speaker: No
Interviewer: No, ok
Speaker: I only… I landed into CBT myself actually because I voluntarily went to Vista for three days. I needed a time out because I was really going downhill fast so and um I actually found that I could help other people, other women who were struggling with suicidal thoughts. I didn’t know DBT, but I had some encouraging books that they could look at and things that were able to enhance sort of their view of themselves. Christian psychology stuff so.
Interviewer: Yeah, so as I mentioned before we want to develop these video about CBT so we are kind of going to move on talking a little bit more detail about those. So, thinking about the video, who would be in the video in your perspective? What characters do you think we should include?
Speaker: What ages groups are you targeting? 
Interviewer: So as of right now we are trying to make the video appeal to both the patients and their family so pretty much all age groups, but um yeah.
Speaker: And is it just one video? 
Interviewer: As of right now.