Speaker: Yeah because you don’t want to sugarcoat it.
I mean you want to be realistic about it and it’s not a miracle cure.
A lot of it is the therapist drawing you out or drawing your fears out to touch them without making you feel like you are on the burner.
Interviewer: Yeah
Speaker: So I don’t know.
Interviewer: Good!
And so yeah this is shaping up nicely.
What should be talked about in the videos and should there be specific questions asked and addressed in the videos?
Speaker: I would ask the counselors or the psychologists that one.
I don’t… I don’t know.
Um… questions again so if it’s a counselor talking with a child, I’m trying to picture it in my head when I close my eyes, so um you know friendly opening questions like “How was your day to day?” you know.
Did you have any so for performance anxiety you know, “How did your test go?” Or “How did your presentation go?” You know ask things that um... are relative to what they are going through.
If they are going to school ask then ask school related questions to sort of be the icebreakers.
Interviewer: Yeah
Speaker: Um if they are working, um…you know if you are talking about the adults being the patients um and not just the parents um… is that part of the scope or is it?
Interviewer: It’s more so the perspective of the child as the patient but the parents are still involved.
Speaker: Ok… so um you know if they have a lovey animal, you know a little lovey animal or a stuff animal that they bring with them you know, if it’s not too corny you can ask how the lovey is doing or the stuff animal so.
Interviewer: Yeah, and should they ask about how it worked for other kids?
Speaker: How who should ask?
Interviewer: Like should that a be like a question between maybe characters or should it be in the form of kind of a little snippet of an interview of kids explaining how its worked for them.
Speaker: I’m not completely sure they know what method is being used on them and I’m not quite sure it’s necessary that they know.
They just need something that works and helps them to uh navigate life better.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Do you think that there should be kids saying those things like its helped them, the feel better, and things of that sort?
Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer: What about how exposures work?
Speaker: Um I don’t think my daughter has done that.
I don’t know… I don’t know how to answer that one.
Interviewer: Ok.
Speaker: I guess exposure to me in my situation means that uh they… like my counselor is uh just incredibly good.
If there is a day like I don’t feel like talking, she draws me out easily and she knows how to get me to talk.
So for exposures she has me think of a memory and she has me put my… what’s the word, not my real finger, my um… psychological finger.
I don’t know how to say that.
So that to me the exposure is bringing old moods out into the open.
Interviewer: Yeah and for some other kids the disorder may be putting them in a situation where they must face their fears or something that’s bothering them so do you think that would be beneficial to show in the video?
Interviewer 1: Okay so thank you so much for meeting with us today.
Uh, I’m working with a team of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy, uh, which is the type of therapy that he’s been receiving here at our clinic.
Um, for this project, we want to develop a few, short educational videos about cognitive behavioral therapy um for children and their parents that are coming in to receive it.
Um, and since cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful, we’ll be referring to it as CBT from now on.
Speaker: Gotcha
Interviewer 1: Um, so to start, please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT.