Interviewee: It was, I mean for me with it just from an academic side of things, it was close enough to the areas I which I have studied in the past that you know I have bits and pieces of it through academic journals or professional papers and things to that nature, um but um, not anything that as far as um popular media is concerned that I would have gotten, or that is sort of out there that I was familiar with from that area.
Interviewer: Ok, anything from like friends or like other sources like people, word of mouth type sources
Interviewee: I don’t think so as far as for CBT as far as um that as an option.
I haven’t really sat down with mothers or parents and gone like “this is what you need to do for your child” um I have another family member who is just starting to possibly go through that process themselves, so I’m kind of in a way educating them.
I don’t think it’s always out there where people can go “let’s turn to CBT” and I still don’t think it’s like right of the tongue for people to try.
Interviewee: My sisters a schoolteacher and so she certainly provided when this became an issue for un provided a lot of information for us and one of my sons has dyslexia and the person who had worked with him in his elementary, early elementary, we had talked to her and she had guided me toward to trying to see through you all CBT and she sort of explained sort of what the process was gonna be.
It’s another counselor but it’s not the area that she works.
Interviewer: Ok, makes sense.
Um thinking about your experience with CBT, were there any parts of therapy that were confusing to you guys?
Interviewee: Um, I don’t think anything is confusing for CBT, other than it may not always be a clear picture of like how long you may have to go through a certain element of it because you really unless you start that particular thing with the child you don’t know if this will take a day or two weeks, or so that part will always be kind of cloudy because there is no black and white, everybody is different, everybody’s brain works differently, everybody has more challenges in some ways or others, so I think the time frame is really something that can’t really be nailed down.
Interviewer: yeah
Interviewee: With the exception of the time issue, I thought that both the, uh, psychiatrists that we initially saw and then the counselor on the first visit I thought explained quite well what the process is gonna be.
Interviewer: That’s good
Interviewee: As far as my stand point, and I’m not sure for my daughters but
Interviewer: Right, ok.
What do you think you guys would tell someone who is just about to start CBT.
Interviewee: I think I would tell them that a good worthwhile tool that will really aide them in getting a faster result than normal, our children both have CBT and they both have medication, so um I’ve seen medication and the CBT work together work the best, but if I had to choose one or the other I think the CBT by itself alone will get you results because you’re pushing the brain to challenge and overcome that obstacle and make it be okay and then you picture the next one and make it be okay so you’re kind of in a way, in my head, reprogramming your main brain for the rest of your life.
And so you have ups and downs, you’re always gonna have ups and downs but the CBT gives you the skills to know “ok now this is just a different challenge of my obstacle” CBT shows that “I’m gonna do it this way” and get through that.
It gives you, I think, hope to like “ok I can live my life and be normal” so to speak, again, because you have CBT as your backup.
If I need it it’s there and you have the tools for it.
Interviewer: Ok.