Interviewee: And also have to be self-aware, aware like oh well now’s the time I need to  [UNDERSCORE] those skills you know….
It’s hard.
Interviewer: Right… So the goal of CBT at least in this context probably is to reduce anxiety or at least be able to live with the anxiety umm if someone asked you how anxiety became a problem is someone’s life how would you respond?
Like what information will be important for other potential patients to know.
Interviewee: On how to recognize or…
Interviewer: However, I mean whatever you believe would be important to kind of know about anxiety coming about, becoming something that is uh problematic that needs to be uh challenged.
Interviewee: I think one of the biggest things that knowing that it can either stand alone as a diagnosis or it can also be  [UNDERSCORE] a from another diagnosis.
And you know things that can kind of interweave that um and to know that it can manifest itself in so many different ways you know it’s not like, oh you have this kind of rash, you have chicken pox.
You know, it’s it’s that’s pretty black and white or you have  [UNDERSCORE] , its so many like greys and just you know everything from sleeplessness you know, I wonder if somethings wrong they can’t sleep, to um appetite being affected, you know friendships, all kind of things.
So I think it’s important for people to know that it can either stand alone or it can be so involved in other diagnoses and um the best thing to do is to be aware and educate themselves as much as possible on how it can be a broad spectrum.
.
Interviewer: Anything you’d like to add to that?
Umm  [UNDERSCORE] what’s the question again?
Interviewer: Sorry, so it’s a bit of a complicated one um, what’s you know when anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life?
Like what should people know in terms of how to address that, is there anything in particular that’s really important for individuals?
Interviewee: That it, I mean, I feel like that you don’t ignore it or you know you don’t just think oh well it’s just a passing thing I think you um… I think umm… I don’t know… we’d just do the best you can, I guess in trying to address it.
And not let it get worse.
Interviewer: Could you guys tell me about from your perspective um certain areas that CBT really targets or skills that it builds?
Kind of going off this discussion of kind like how anxiety can become very impairing like it can stem, it can manifest itself in many different ways.
Interviewee: Um that’s a little hard, I guess just because I am at a point where I haven’t seen that yet.
LAUGH
Interviewer: Sure, sure
Interviewee: Um I’m hoping it will teach self-awareness and the um the ability to really kind of recognize … one’s own thought and feeling and then hopefully understand the appropriate behavior that needs to follow or not follow as a result of that and what’s and keeping appropriate for the setting if that makes sense, but um that’s what we hope for him and that they don’t let anything come to debilitating in their life and to also recognize when to they need to reach out for help.
To recognize when maybe a line been crossed and ok I need to say something, you know
Interviewee: Like they are slipping and they do reach out and or you know be able to reign it in somehow.