Interviewer: So with that being said, just more follow up on that question, should there be any non- human characters, such as animals, superheroes?
Speaker: Uh… it’s interesting you say superheroes. My brother- in- law is a big super hero guy here in town. He supplies Shands with the bat- mobile, all that kind of stuff… that really would be, in my opinion, dependent on the kid. Depending on the age of the kid and their interest level, you may have kids that are just like my brother in law, who are big time into the superhero genre: Marvel, DC comics and all that kind of stuff, and you can get kids that are really into that world, because they’ve decided to become, I hate to say reclusive, but inward, looking inward constantly, and not really looking out. Introvert, is what I was looking for. So they start looking at nonstop computer games, videos online, things like that becomes a world that they are familiar with. So I would say on a limited basis, you may be able to, depends on your budget! How many videos can you put out?
Interviewer: What about children? Should we include a boy or girl? Both? Or parents, friends, doctors in the videos?
Speaker: Well, I mean, you’re trying to make the parent feel comfortable in most cases, because the kid’s not going to have a choice, they’re going to be coming, so I think you could do both. Still the video speaks to the kid with the parent seeing it, but then again I think you also should probably have something talk to the parent in general about what to expect. It’s something that you should do maybe before they get here. Are you talking about having the video… well you don’t want to answer my questions, so… ha-ha... maybe you have an introductory set of videos that address this prior to them coming, so they do have an idea about cognitive behavioral therapy. 
Interviewer: So now that we’ve talked about who would be in the video, what about deciding where the video would take place? In the context of the video, would it be a home setting, school setting, doctor’s office, or somewhere outside like a park?
Speaker: I would say that would depends on, and you guys would have more figures on this than I would, but I could definitely see one of them happening in a school. Let’s say out of a hundred people, 45% of the time, 50% of the time, things are school related, like my kid, they spend a lot of time in school that maybe you have one that shows the kid on school answering questions and showing, “Yeah, it paid to answer a question in the classroom,” or I’m looking over here at the other kid and thinking what she’s thinking about me. In that particular situation, sure, having a school video may not be a bad idea. Certainly something in the home, eh, that puts adults typically at ease, but where are most of these anxiety situations transpiring? Maybe that’s kind of the environment you want to have a video like that because that’s people are going to associate with their situation.