Interviewer: And thinking about yours and your child’s experience was there anything about CBT that was confusing?
Speaker: About the… I didn’t know how… didn’t know the method um and they didn’t tell me. I mean they told me it was a CBT based therapy, but I had go find out what CBT was because they weren’t going to tell me how they were going to work with me or my daughter so. Kind of had to find out along the way.
07: 27 Interviewer: mmh yeah so really like the method, the process was what was confusing.
Speaker: I do have to say that learning the breathing techniques at first, or actually for a while and for some people, I know it was very strange so I’ve been through DBT as well and um some people I remember just seemed to think that it was just more Buddhist type of an activity and I know I also sort of thought that as well because some of the… if you say the word meditation if you are talking to kids from strong Christian background, people who do still go to church although it seems like we are dwindling group um, it’s a little put offish in way. You have to make yourself overcome the way it sounds to accept the way it works.
interviewer: Right, ok awesome and what would you want to tell someone who is about start CBT?
Speaker: Give it time to work. If it feels weird the first time in the first session its ok. It’s not just talk therapy. There is a purpose for it. There is a goal in mind. You are not just going to be stuck in talk therapy forever so give it three to five sessions before you make a strong opinion about what it is and how it is affecting your child’s behavior. 
Interviewer: So being patient and knowing that it truly is a goal-oriented type practice.
Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer: Ok awesome and if you could think of three words to describe CBT when you first learned about it, what would those be?
Speaker: I’m thinking. 
Interviewer: Take your time
Speaker: Calmness, reframing… all I can think about are sentences um… I can’t think of another word. I can think of mindfulness… being in the moment. I don’t know how to say that in one word.
Interviewer: That’s ok because that’s three words. Yeah that works. So for each of those words if you had to add a picture to them calmness, reframing, mindfulness, or being in the moment what would they look like?
Speaker: I would think that would differ for each person. For me it would be a safe place somewhere where didn’t feel threatened. For me it’s beside like the side of a small river where there is water coming down or you can hear the trickling of water and um just having a nice temperature and a little bit of sun in your face. Just peacefulness and just the lack of threat.
Interviewer: And what about for reframing. What would that look like?
Speaker: So reframing would be like I have a memory of an event that happened and I think of it almost has my… it’s complicated but I. Um so reframing would be me having my opinion about based on limited information at the time when I was a child and having the therapist or the psychologist ask me what would have happened if my mom had taken me somewhere else.. Um... What would have happened if there… what other outcome could have occurred?
Interviewer: So kind of like presenting a hypothetical.