Interviewer: Sounds good.
And um that concludes the end, but is there anything I missed?
Anything important that you feel like I haven’t asked about that you would like to see explained in the videos or anything I missed within the interview?
Interviewee: Um, you know you as students, as PhD students, you know I think, my wife has lots of PhD students in her lab and what I see with them is that they wind up staying more educational because they’re students.
You know but if you can break away from that, you know what you like and what you don’t like.
But then again you know what you might like for his project and that’s different, but you have good taste, you dress well your posture’s well.
You know what looks good and what doesn’t look good.
What you’d be interested in and what doesn’t.
Same with me, basically I like the same thing you like.
You know we’re on a level you know unless you haven’t been around the world and have been kept I the closet, you know.
Once seeing the boring, you know the commercials that challenge, and they always try to make them better, but how do you make a McDonald’s commercial better?
Interviewer: So if you have any other suggestions or feedback.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Always make someone think.
For instance, I told you the commercial that I did.
Now the film was from the back of the girl and she’s coming out of the water, shivering, you know, but you don’t know if she’s crying, or laughing, or giggling.
Now the intrigue of it is what’s so nice.
But when they came from the front you can see that she’s enjoying herself.
Interviewer: So the visuals need to be… what you think.
Interviewee: Yeah you take it; you can take it to places, you know, be creative.
Interviewer: Ok.
Sounds good.
Interviewee: You know like in dance class when things got boring they would say “show me how it feels if you stuck that finger right in that socket, right now.
Show me how it feels.”
You know?
It wouldn’t be boring in any way.
It’d be shocking, it’d be devastating, but it wouldn’t be boring.
Interviewer: So no boring.
Being creative not boring is what I’m hearing from you.
Interviewee: You don’t want to do that.
You lose people.
Like do it again or did you really stick that finger in that socket.
You know he’s a good actor!
Something like that.
But you see that’s not, you’re not in commercial video arts.
So I’m off in lala land.
But I’m just telling you what works.
And that’s only because I did commercials and I found out what commercials worked and what commercials didn’t work and why, and those creative people; they’re geniuses in a way, but they’re also, they stay in a box.
A lot of the geniuses are making money and they do; they know how to do things but they still stay in the box.
Sometimes you have to reach out of the box.
What’s amazing about this is that I’d do it again and how many things do you want to do again medically?
You know?
Not many.
You know?
Interviewer: Well, I’m glad you had a good experience here.
Interviewee: Yes it was better than good, it was exciting because it was results that I would enjoy and my son’s gonna enjoy.
So, it’s like you said it’s a feeling but it’s not just good it’s like you guys gave us a gift.
I don’t know I sound like I’m going on and on about.
I mean I’m trying to communicate with you and tell you how this was so, this was so close to home.
I mean with going and taking so many tests and seeing so many doctors.
Just to get diagnosed, we went to twelve different doctors you know and everyone’s got a different opinion and everyone’s got a way of doing things.
But this is a result here.