Interviewee: …Talking, a lot of talking and… discussing what is happening throughout life and how to work through whatever… whatever issues have come up throughout life basically.
Interviewer: Okay. Perfect. So when you first learned about the therapy we do here, CBT, do you remember any questions that you had about the process or just CBT in general?
Interviewee: No. Things had become so chaotic in our life at home. You know, we went to our pediatrician and… just said please help and she said go here and we said okay.
Interviewer: Okay. Did you know anything about CBT going in?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: No? Okay. So how much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet, or other people in general?
Interviewee: Nothing.
Interviewer: Nothing? Okay so you didn’t know anything. So thinking about your experience with CBT were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing or- yeah, that were confusing?
Interviewee: No. You know, we didn’t really have a lot of discussion about, you know, what was going to happen or- it was just everything had become so incredibly chaotic… it was, something has to happen and something has to change. Help us and the pediatrician said do this and we were doing this.
Interviewer: Okay. So if someone were to ask you about CBT, what would you want to tell them if they were about to start the therapy?
Interviewee: For us, it’s been- for us specifically with [NAME] because we have- we’ve done it with [NAME] and, you know, we’ve got the younger ones in therapy now also for different reasons but… for [NAME] it’s been extremely helpful. She obviously still has anxiety, I don’t think that’s something that’s ever going to change. It’s just part of her personality and who she is. But we can talk her through… panic attacks and calm her down just through talking and… but having another outlet in a different person for her to talk to… is absolutely a wonderful thing for her to have.
Interviewer: Okay. Great. So when you think about how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it, can you think of three words to describe how you felt? I know it would be kind of a weird question but…
Interviewee: I didn’t really know anything about it, at that point. So…
Interviewer: So when you first learned about it. After it was explained to you, did you have any thoughts in your mind about CBT? That could be in 3 words.
Interviewee: I don’t really know how to answer that because that was so – that was so long ago. I’m sorry.
Interviewer: Okay. That’s okay. Maybe we’ll circle back around to that question. So the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety so if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Interviewee: I feel like… for… for us, I think a lot of [NAME] had to do with external factors… I think it’s always, you know, there as a part of her personality but I think external factors exacerbate it. I think we’ve had a lot of family drama, which for her triggers that.
Interviewer: So you would say family drama is one of your external factors?
Interviewee: Correct.
Interviewer: Okay. Are there any other external factors that exacerbate her anxiety?
Interviewee: School drama, which sadly being a teenage girl, is a factor of life.
Interviewer: Yup. Okay. These are good examples. So what is important for other patients to know about how anxiety becomes an issue? So like you said external factors like school, family. What would be important for patients to know when starting CBT?
Interviewee: It has to be a very honest process. That’s one of the- that’s one of the concerns I had with [NAME], you know, because she’s very reserved and closed off, is that she wouldn’t be-she wouldn’t give it a chance and really open up to anybody. So, it has to be a very honest process.