Interviewer 1: Um, so the goal of cognitive behavioral therapy, or CBT, is to reduce anxiety.
So if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Speaker: Uh, I, well, at least in my son’s case, I would say that, um, it could impact, if they’re at the school, it could impact their school definitely.
That’s what I’ve seen.
Uh, they forget, uh, what some of the important things that they need to do.
Uh, they become less organized and uh … some parents might look at it as oh, maybe my kid uh is not that smart or you know, it-it’s um, they might miss that okay, this their grades, it’s might be something that they could address it by simple therapy.
I think in our case, that was what I was seeing.
My son uh is very smart and so, but then I saw his scores going down, so that was alarming and I think so what could be the problem that makes him uh, you know that uh, that has caused his grades to go down.
So by addressing it and finding out, okay what is it that is causing it then you can uh seek the right treatment or right therapy to actually help your kid to feel good about themselves because at some point, my kid mmm could tell me oh maybe I’m not that smart or maybe this or maybe that.
But by taking away, by helping reduce the anxiety through the therapy, then you would show the kid okay, it’s not you, or it’s not, it’s not something that um, it’s not something that you cannot fight.
It’s something that can be addressed by simple therapy and then, because kids are going through a lot of things and you want to make sure that uh you address things that you can address.
And then help the kids to uh actually flourish and get the confidence that they thought they don’t have it because um because what anxiety impacted in their school or in their uh, everyday um um activity that they have, with their teachers with their, you know, friends.
So I think it’s very important that if the kid has anxiety that we diagnose and take it seriously.
Interviewer 1: Okay, so you first started noticing it with his, like schoolwork?
Speaker: Yes.
Interviewer 1: And also, you like wanted him to know that it wasn’t him, it was something outside of him that you could fix through therapy.
Speaker: Yes, exactly.
Interviewer 1: Okay.
Um could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that the therapy targets?
So like thoughts, feelings, or actions?
Speaker: Um I feel, um, I think um feelings definitely.
Feeling, actions, and I think all three, um get um, affected by, by the right therapy, definitely.
And my son actually gets OT, uh occupational therapy as well.
So, he’s, he’s doing that therapy for more than, I think, since beginning of August.
So it’s been, it’s been four months.
So the techniques that he’s getting from OT even though it’s not uh
Interviewer 1: CBT?
Speaker: Yes LAUGHS It’s still, it’s very helpful.
So it’s helping with him becoming more organized, creating good habits.
So in general, I think all type of therapies are good if they are um if they are addressed to the uh, to the issues parents or kids are bringing up.
So it could be occupational therapy or it could be a therapy that helps with anxiety and many other therapies that I don’t know LAUGHS.
Interviewer 1: So I know you talked about this earlier, how um the CBT has been helping him like change his thought processes.
Speaker: Mmmhmm