Speaker: You don’t want to scare them off. You don’t want to make their anxiety skyrocket when they are like you know oh my god, I’m afraid of sticky things and they are going to make me touch something sticky you know by exposure therapy so I think if you bring that into it find a way to do it gently.
Interviewer: Gently for exposure therapy….. What were you thinking?
Speaker: Yeah. I mean yes because kids, at least little kids, don’t always wanna do something because they know its best for them, they want to avoid it. They are like oh that sounds bad I don’t want to do that, no.
Interviewer: Right, how would you say it in terms of I think ultimately the thing that we end up doing here a lot of times in therapy is doing as you say facing their fears, so I’m kind of curious in terms of how to relay that message to kids about you know finding that sweet spot of not wanting to scare the kids off, but at the same time that is the essence?
Speaker: Maybe if you focus on the triumph you know…
Interviewer: Focus on triumph.
Speaker:  Like so if you show the kid that they... that this used to bother them, but then they’ve been challenged and overcame these greater challenges and now look they don’t even think about it. They are just doing it, you know.
Interviewer: Makes sense.
Speaker: and more of a story form rather than ok this is what we do, we are going to do the grossest stuff and you know I mean just show it like show it in a story form.
Speaker: Yeah there is, I think there is a sweet spot there. Um you know I think using words like   you are going to have to be brave, you are going to have to pull your bootstraps up, and you are going to have to be a big kid or you know things like that, that hint at hmmm this may not be that easy, you know. I’m gonna have to do something that is a little bit of work, but they’re not really sure exactly what it is but there is that slight hint of [45:43] ___. But the reward is so great that alright I’m gonna put my big boy pants on or whatever you know. But um yeah I think big words like that, be brave, be strong umm it’s gonna be worth it.
Interviewer: So you think…
Speaker: It’s gonna be worth it in the end. I think just so you are not tricking them, but you are not putting it all out there either.
Interviewer: So definitely not everything out there. We do not want be extremely explicit.
Speaker: Because I think for kids that have OCD that if they think they are going to have to either or probably already anxious in their mind about coming here um and then if they are thinking they may face their fears that’s just going the skyrocket the anxiety… and makes those compulsions just really go crazy. 
Interviewer: How do you think we were discussing earlier potentially of having a kid in the parent video? Would that look different in the parent video in terms of the message that would be given there? Because it seems right now we are talking about the kid video we really want to talks about the benefits of therapy and how you succeed and triumph but hint at the idea that these thing are going to, you are going to have to face your fears.
Speaker: It is going to take work
Interviewer: Right. It’s going to... for the parent videos?
Speaker: Practice… Well it will take some practice on behalf of the kids and I think for the parents you can pretty much put it out there like this is hard. You are going to have to... it’s a challenge.
Interviewer: So be more explicit. In that sense be more explicit.
Speaker: Yeah, so it’s like warning you are going to have to roll your sleeves up.
Speaker: Yeah