Speaker: Because… so my daughter sometimes plays games with my daughter. My daughter is 13, so I know games can sometimes help a therapist reach a child or you now. In terms of who would be in it, I would include kids of different ages, different races, male and female. I know a lot of the psychologists are female, but it would be good to show you know a man working with probably a boy. I know my daughter doesn’t want to see anyone who is not a female. So um you know that’s her thing. Parents could be in a waiting room, but they could also be talking to the therapist. You don’t want to necessarily show the checking-out procedure of you know paying because that’s not CBT. That’s policy. Got to pay for what you are getting. 
Interviewer: Ok great! What about nonhuman characters, animals, superheroes, do you think any of those would be appealing? 
Speaker: Well there are... ok so your mascot almost, sort of.
Interviewer: Well not necessarily. It could just I mean for the superheroes that would just be another way to represent things.
36:4o Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer: But this based on your perspective. It’s what you think. If you don’t think that superheroes, animals, nonhumans should be involved [36:47] ___.  
Speaker: I know a lot of times they are effective marketing tools. Would I put them in? Probably not, but I’m also not a marketer. So I know in the real world there are emotional support animals that really could make an appearance. For the younger kids, it would probably be useful to have something cartooning, not anime though. That’s a little to strange. Something that is safe appearing, not something creepy or cringy you know. You want a teddy bear.
Interviewer: Yeah, so really just the people that are really involved in the process like the kids, the parents, the therapist and stuff like that. 
Speaker: Yeah… I don’t know if you would…teachers don’t usually get involved in?
Interviewer: Sometimes, it depends.
Speaker: I don’t know if I would include anything outside of nuclear family or grandparents. It would be the people who would give consent. It would the people who have legal authority over the child. 
Interviewer: Yeah great. Um so what about where they would talk… what would be a good setting for the video or multiple settings? 
Speaker: Um I’m a realist so you know to set the standard. Show them a typical room. Different therapists decorate a little differently. If there’s… if certain colors are meant to elicit certain feelings or um responses do that. 
Interviewer: Yeah
Speaker: I probably would not do one where there’s a two-way mirror involved because that is that would make anybody feel uncomfortable so. It’s like I’m being watched.
Interviewer: So really just like the therapist office would be the best setting.
Speaker: Yeah because you don’t want to sugarcoat it. I mean you want to be realistic about it and it’s not a miracle cure. A lot of it is the therapist drawing you out or drawing your fears out to touch them without making you feel like you are on the burner. 
Interviewer: Yeah
Speaker: So I don’t know. 
Interviewer: Good! And so yeah this is shaping up nicely. What should be talked about in the videos and should there be specific questions asked and addressed in the videos?
Speaker: I would ask the counselors or the psychologists that one. I don’t… I don’t know. Um… questions again so if it’s a counselor talking with a child, I’m trying to picture it in my head when I close my eyes, so um you know friendly opening questions like “How was your day to day?” you know. Did you have any so for performance anxiety you know, “How did your test go?” Or “How did your presentation go?” You know ask things that um... are relative to what they are going through. If they are going to school ask then ask school related questions to sort of be the icebreakers.
Interviewer: Yeah