Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who was about to start cognitive behavior therapy?
Speaker: I would say not to fear it, not to be stressed out about it. Having seen what I have seen here, and when I say that I mean just seeing some of the people that have come in, some of them, which go to my daughter’s school, you have no idea that “Wow, she’s here too” or “He’s here, I had no idea.” It’s something that a lot of people, I guess the ones who have been willing to talk about it or have had someone who has perceived intentionally that you could get help like this, that it’s available; you shouldn’t be stigmatized about it, you shouldn’t worry about it. It’s not a big deal. You know, if people only realized you probably would find about a third of the country is in some kind of therapy or is taking some kind of a drug, unfortunately, to assist them with depression or something like that. I have been surprised on a number of occasions with former friends [9:05] ____ and to find that half of them were on antidepressants in their 30s or 40s you know.
Interviewer: Think of three things that describe you felt about CBT when you first heard about it. What would those words be?
Speaker: Words about how I felt about CBT…
Interviewer: So think about three words that described how you felt, when you first heard about it, and what would those words be?
Speaker: Helpful… non-threatening…common.
Interviewer: Okay, helpful, non-threatening, and common. If you were to add a picture to each of those words, what would it be?
Speaker: Add a picture to each of these words… helping a kid with like, homework. That’s what we’re talking about. Non- threatening, talking to a police officer.
Interviewer: who’s talking to a police officer? 
Speaker: Anybody.
Interviewer. Anybody. Okay. 
Speaker: Kids today are afraid of police officers in many cases… what was my last suggestion?
Interviewer: Your last one was common. 
Speaker: Common, just looking at a crowd of people and probably a third or half of the people either could use therapy or are in therapy in some way, shape, or form. 
Interviewer: So the goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety. If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Speaker: Not noticing either the symptoms, case in point, or not being informed, which I guess is ____ of this session, trying to find a way to inform people of what people have, and that there are solutions to deal with, and they are readily available if you have insurance or maybe even if you don’t.
Interviewer: Right. What is important for other patients to know based off what you said earlier about…
Speaker: That the three descriptive things is essentially that this is accessible and it is there to help you, and it will help you if you’re dealing with anxiety. It can be healed. You can be healed.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Speaker: Any specific skills…
Interviewer: Or areas… what about thoughts, feelings, and actions. Do you feel that CBT targets those areas?
Speaker: Well absolutely, I mean those are all anxiety base type [13:05] ____ Yes. Yes it does affect all of those in the person’s life, and so yeah you need to find a solution [13:20] ____ therapy certainly addresses that.
Interviewer: Are there any questions you wish you had asked before you started the CBT in the context of the previous question.