Interviewer: Ok. Um looking at the subject matter what they will be talking about. What do you think will be the most impactful subject in terms of what type of things will be spoken in the video?
Interviewee: I don’t know. I mean I think it will be important to have a range of issues and different types of issues and different  [UNDERSCORE].  And I think that it is important to have arc and kind of showing how individuals sort of are able to progress and you know how they felt before, where they’re going, and you know how they felt about the process along the way. So I think those are important. I don’t know how much time you have umm yeah. So I think a variety of ages. I think you know things that are… you know I would have a range of concerns from common to quite unusual.
Interviewer: So it sounds like there should be breathe in terms of what’s spoken about and also like as you mentioned arc, more of a story rather than just information being thrown kind of at the viewer. That’s what I’m hearing.
Interviewee: Yeah I think an arc is helpful because at least it says ok you know it doesn’t necessarily have to be a completed arc and I think in some ways that often would be important not say this is done, but ok this is what it was like before. It was really difficult. This is what we did, you know. This is how the parents helped and dealt with it. This is where we are know, you know. Go forward from here whatever. So not… I think that’s helpful right I mean because…. I think if you just talk about the process and not show what the outcomes are it won’t be very helpful.
Interviewee: Did you see my text? .... No you were busy. I have faculty meeting tonight  [UNDERSCORE] so I cannot do dinner. You can come down and get dinner for you and [NAME]. They offered and you can take a plate home for [NAME] if you want, but I have a faculty meeting. I’m sorry, I’m sorry [NAME]. [TALKING TO PERSON NOT ON THE PHONE]
Interviewer: I’m transcribing so it’s fine.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Or our RAs are transcribing so
Interviewee: So...
Interviewee: Well then
Interviewee: I apologize, but there is food downstairs if you would like to have a plate.
Interviewee: Well I’ll ask [NAME] what he wants to do.
Interviewee: OK thanks. Bye.
Interviewer: One last question about the what in the video. In terms about talking how CBT works, do you think that’s something that’s a good thing to put in the videos?
Interviewee: Yeah I think not detailed you know, but I think sort of…. You know illustrations on how anxiety levels go up and then repeated exposures can decrease. I think things like that are helpful kind of just explain to them what the overall theories and ideas are. I think that would be helpful to give them some, you know idea what the process is and what to expect, you know.
Interviewer: and um in...
Interviewee: and that everything is going to be different depending on the individuals and anxiety.
Interviewer: Right. Sounds like a lot of that is you know something you said throughout kind of like it is very individualized for different people and it varies. Not one size fits all. In terms of how the video should look, we have a few different styles I just want you to take a look at and I’m curious if there is any one, there’s just three of them, if there’s any one in particular that stands out more than the others, or one that you really don’t like.
Interviewee: What, what is it you are trying to do.
Interviewer: So this one the first option would be line art. So it would be pretty live-action and then it would have people able to draw, and there would be special effects where we can digitally alter it so people look like they are drawing things and [UNDERSCORE]  different line arts. So that’s the first option.