Speaker: Um and at what point where would you being showing it?
Interviewer: So Ideally we would like… I mean it would be something that would be shown to patients and families right before they would start treatment to kind of better understand what they are going to be doing.
Speaker: So not like a public service announcement type of thing.
Interviewer: Um no more so targeting people who are going into CBT.
Speaker: Ok so an introduction to CBT.
Um how long will it be?
Interviewer: Um not sure.
Probably not like 20 minutes.
Probably something pretty concise, but enough information so people know what to expect.
Speaker: So remind me your question.
Interviewer: Who would be in the video?
Speaker: Oh boy!
Um in a world where everyone needs to be included, um you would have to involve some children maybe with different scenarios of how CBT is done.
I would break it into… do you do CBT on a little kid?
Interviewer: Um yeah
Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer: Yeah I would say yeah.
Speaker: Because… so my daughter sometimes plays games with my daughter.
My daughter is 13, so I know games can sometimes help a therapist reach a child or you now.
In terms of who would be in it, I would include kids of different ages, different races, male and female.
I know a lot of the psychologists are female, but it would be good to show you know a man working with probably a boy.
I know my daughter doesn’t want to see anyone who is not a female.
So um you know that’s her thing.
Parents could be in a waiting room, but they could also be talking to the therapist.
You don’t want to necessarily show the checking-out procedure of you know paying because that’s not CBT.
That’s policy.
Got to pay for what you are getting.
Interviewer: Ok great!
What about nonhuman characters, animals, superheroes, do you think any of those would be appealing?
Speaker: Well there are... ok so your mascot almost, sort of.
Interviewer: Well not necessarily.
It could just I mean for the superheroes that would just be another way to represent things.
Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer: But this based on your perspective.
It’s what you think.
If you don’t think that superheroes, animals, nonhumans should be involved  ___.
Speaker: I know a lot of times they are effective marketing tools.
Would I put them in?
Probably not, but I’m also not a marketer.
So I know in the real world there are emotional support animals that really could make an appearance.
For the younger kids, it would probably be useful to have something cartooning, not anime though.
That’s a little to strange.
Something that is safe appearing, not something creepy or cringy you know.
You want a teddy bear.
Interviewer: Yeah, so really just the people that are really involved in the process like the kids, the parents, the therapist and stuff like that.
Speaker: Yeah… I don’t know if you would…teachers don’t usually get involved in?
Interviewer: Sometimes, it depends.
Speaker: I don’t know if I would include anything outside of nuclear family or grandparents.
It would be the people who would give consent.
It would the people who have legal authority over the child.
Interviewer: Yeah great.
Um so what about where they would talk… what would be a good setting for the video or multiple settings?
Speaker: Um I’m a realist so you know to set the standard.
Show them a typical room.
Different therapists decorate a little differently.
If there’s… if certain colors are meant to elicit certain feelings or um responses do that.
Interviewer: Yeah
Speaker: I probably would not do one where there’s a two-way mirror involved because that is that would make anybody feel uncomfortable so.
It’s like I’m being watched.
Interviewer: So really just like the therapist office would be the best setting.