Interviewee: And I also wondered too as far as siblings go like, they kind of do need to know what’s going on if they are of the right age, because then if they are just wow wow they have fallen on those traps too, they are like wait a second why is everyone doing something different you know and I haven’t necessarily been on this or maybe I was briefly quickly told something in the car, hey we are going to start doing this from now on, you know or whatever and that’s very important that they don’t feel left out, plus that they are fully engaged and can also help with the whole  [UNDERSCORE].
Speaker 1: Right
Interviewer: Very much like a family system.
Interviewee: Absolutely.
It affects every single person.
Interviewee: True
Interviewer: Do you, any either of you have any friends or family that have gone through similar experience or have gone through CBT before to your knowledge?
Interviewee: Not that I know of
Interviewer: Not that you know of.
Do you, have you ever recalled seeing anything about CBT in popular media, like in shows, or movies, or in books?
Interviewee: Umm, I don’t know.
I don’t know.
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t recall.
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: Ok
Interviewee: “As good as it gets”, but he really didn’t go through therapy he just started.
I don’t know if you have seen that movie.
Interviewer: Oh was that a movie.
Interviewee: Uh?
Interviewer: No, I haven’t seen that movie.
No. Interviewee: No, anyways, Jack Nicholson.
Interviewee: I remember that movie.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: Yeah, he as OCD and he finally was realizing it, and he went finally go get therapy and he busted into the office, but they really didn’t do  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: mmmh, with Greg Kinnear
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah
Interviewee: Yeah I remember that.
Interviewer: So one question that we’ve been asking is um if you could have three words that describe what CBT is, what would those words be?
…. Three words.
Interviewee: That’s hard
Interviewee: Well, I think challenge is one cause’ we always, we gotta challenge ourselves.
It’s our big thing.
Interviewee: I guess I was thinking more of three consecutive words that mean, that could go together but my first thing that really made sense that came to my head was like reformed thoughts and behavior and it seems like a process of learning to reform and retrain and I’m not really settling on three words, am I.
Interviewer: No, no those are three words.
Just the first three words that kind of just come to your head for that.
Interviewee: Reform, or retrain.
Really reform I think, thought and behaviors, because that’s kind of what’s happening hopefully.
Interviewee: I guess for us is you know challenge yourself.
Umm push past the anxiety and do it anyway cause’ if you don’t it will just get worse.
Interviewer: Maybe not necessarily for your specific  [UNDERSCORE], but like when you think really broadly of CBT, is there anything that pops out in your head, that just comes in your head and you’re like that’s what I think of.
Interviewee: Controlling your thoughts and behaviors.
Interviewer: So like control.
Interviewee: mmmh.
Interviewer: Control…..
So like challenge, fight control, and then reform thoughts behaviors.
OK, do any like pictures come to mind when you think of those things or broadly CBT, like do you have an image in your head?
Interviewee: No, my only image so far is really just my child sitting in the office or us sitting or speaking, but I guess if we were to think beyond that….
I don’t know….
I got conjure up something….
Do you have any images?
Interviewee: Of CBT?
I don’t know just hand washing standing in front of the sink, I don’t know.
Interviewer: Yes, more of an abstract concept, you know.
Interviewee: yeah, in the abstract concepts…