Speaker: So… as we’ve worked our way through the therapy sometimes the things have changed or new things have come in and as a parent I already see her navigate. She uses- applies some of the same techniques almost naturally now, so it’s to the point where we’ve even gone through period- long periods of time where we weren’t coming and… we’re back and it’s been short, sweet and sort of quick just like in some ways a refresher. But she, you know, she’s an adolescent now so she’s a lot different than she was 4 years ago and is in all kinds of different situations. Does that answer your question? 
Interviewer: You did, yeah. Yeah no. You talked about, you know, before doing therapy you said they kind of talked about the different paths you could take, they talked about the fear hierarchy, and then I think you mentioned with the rainbow.
Speaker: Yeah, I forgot what it was. Lightning and rainbows? I don’t remember. Something like that. I remember but it really, for me and I remember really my daughter too, it was- for us it seemed to put it kind of into oh here’s the plan, here’s what we’re doing. Here’s where you might be right now but if you continue doing this it will be over time. To-at the beginning I was like wow this is really intense and intensive. When we were about to do something like the camp where it was like she went in whatever it was 5 days insanely panicked about some things. Then by the 5th day she was just like here go ahead give me a shot and she actually did it that day, you know, whereas there were no immunizations before that. There was no finger pricks. There was a [12:58] ____ of staff, you know, trying to get to her, get her to calm down. There was avoiding doctor’s appointments, there was- it was just crazy. It was just crazy how intense it was to just in a quick period of time and that was just one of her things in her fear hierarchy but things that really affected her daily life not even just doctor stuff but just in that short week so many things because it was so intensive. It was day after day working really really hard so…
Interviewer: So it sounds like you’re saying that knowing the- having the visual representation was helpful to kind of know what to expect and also being able to know the different paths you can take were helpful.
Speaker: Right. Yeah, you can do something intensive that’s shorter and I would hopefully assume that other people have those kind of responses. I can only say what we had or, you know, that if that’s not possible having… and I think it worked well to- we usually have some sort of homework type thing to do and so you’re still working in between your sessions or can be working in between your sessions. But then yeah, spreading it out over more time so it’s not… benefit both ways. Yeah, there are different paths you could go. 
Interviewer: Right. It sounds like so- I know it might be difficult to think back 4 years ago. So it sounds like there were some things that they talked about that really helped you. Was there anything that you wish you had known that maybe you found out later. Then if you think about it, you’re like well I wish we had known this when we first started. And if you don’t that’s okay.