Interviewer: Oh so do one for kids and one for parents.
Interviewee: Right
Interviewer: Ok
Interviewee: That’s not a bad idea.
That’s a very good idea.
Interviewee: it’s because kids I think they would listen more if it was their personal story, you know, rather than oh moms there duh, they are like, I don’t know.
I just feel like that would work.
Interviewer: So in the parent video would that, who would be starring in the parent video?
Would it be parents?
Interviewee: It would be their perspectives and what they’ve gone through and… what their involvements are going to be so they can speak with the parents you know.
Interviewer: So other than the things we have on here um just curious on your thoughts um superheroes, do you think that’s something that kids would like to see in these types of videos?
Interviewee: I think the younger kids would I don’t know for the older the 16 year olds.
I don’t know.
I don’t have a 16 year old yet so I don’t know......
They might think its cheesy…
Interviewee: Mines a 11, my sons 11 that’s in this and I mean he likes superheroes, but I don’t feel like that would a good way to try and relate with him imaging children older maybe not so much, but yeah, maybe younger.
That I would say for that age group… I wouldn’t unless yeah, I wouldn’t
Interviewer: How about um any other non-human characters like animals?
Pets?
Interviewee: There’s always you know ways to make animals kind of cute or cool you know to target that audience whether it be a dinosaur or however you dissolve it
or interject it but….
I don’t know.
Interviewee: I don’t know to me to think even you know my child would… I don’t know… I don’t think, it would lack seriousness somehow they would it wouldn’t be it wouldn’t hit… It wouldn’t be as personalized you know I thing, buts that I don’t know because I’m not a kid and I don’t know.
I feel like they would relate more to other kids than superheroes or you know um pets.
Interviewee: I almost think of imagery as far as cartoons go like, I think of like taking you know cartoon brains and cartoon hearts while they are showing the kids sitting there you know, like maybe they will do it an outline of the brain or something and then show something sweet happening to it or maybe show something difficult happening to it and then something sweet happening to it, like maybe it’s up against a brick you know in a hard place or a rock in a hard place you know, and then maybe show in time we are gonna show you how to and the brick turns to sand you know [UNDERSCORE].
I think of things also, I think of things that show like ways to heal the heart because they feel, these kids feel so much and they don’t want to be like this, you know.
So I think more as far as cartoon imagery is going that’s like the first thing that popped in my mind more than animals or superheroes.
Interviewer: Right
Interviewee: I mean you can incorporate that if you want, but I think they can see oh wow like that brain is having a hard time, my brain has a hard time you know.
Once they go through this oh look it’s happening to the brain, you know what I mean they’re  [UNDERSCORE] I think that would touch them more.
Interviewer: Right so going into that we actually have um three categories of um options that we are playing with right now in terms of the style choices.
So we have this line art which is basically kind of those types of videos where you’d have those illustrations that can be happening during the video basically and being able to draw things out so that first  [UNDERSCORE].
Interviewee: I kind of like that