Interviewer: That’s ok because that’s three words. Yeah that works. So for each of those words if you had to add a picture to them calmness, reframing, mindfulness, or being in the moment what would they look like?
Speaker: I would think that would differ for each person. For me it would be a safe place somewhere where didn’t feel threatened. For me it’s beside like the side of a small river where there is water coming down or you can hear the trickling of water and um just having a nice temperature and a little bit of sun in your face. Just peacefulness and just the lack of threat.
Interviewer: And what about for reframing. What would that look like?
Speaker: So reframing would be like I have a memory of an event that happened and I think of it almost has my… it’s complicated but I. Um so reframing would be me having my opinion about based on limited information at the time when I was a child and having the therapist or the psychologist ask me what would have happened if my mom had taken me somewhere else.. Um... What would have happened if there… what other outcome could have occurred?
Interviewer: So kind of like presenting a hypothetical.
Speaker: Yeah yeah and it makes you go back. So I relive these things every time I talk about them unfortunately. So um there was this time in sixth grade where my mom who is schizophrenic and bipolar. My parents got divorced in third grade so my mom... so I was living alone with my mom and my brother and sister lived with my dad. So the situation was my mom wanted to know what I thought about moving to Canada. We were living in Colorado and it scared me enough somehow that I contacted my brother and sister who were living with my dad and within that week custody changed from me being with my mom to me being with my dad. So I felt guilty for so many years for most of my life that I left mom when I promised her that I wouldn’t. So in cognitive behavior therapy the question posed to me was what would have happened if you had stayed with your mom? So I had to think. Well we could have ended up homeless. We could have… oh and so a result of me leaving also was that she got hospitalized. So in the scheme of things it had a good outcome, although for the longest time I felt bad. It made me reconsider so that I didn’t need to feel the guilt and the shame um that I had and that it was ok the way it turned out and um…
Interviewer: Yeah, so would you say maybe a picture that could be associated with the reframing would be someone sitting with a therapist or someone [16:10] ___ showing support or
Speaker: Yes, showing support um helping them to realize that there is more than one choice.
Interviewer: Yeah ok awesome. So the goal of CBT many times is to reduce anxiety, so if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in one’s life what would you say it looks like? 
Speaker: Um having lived with it all of my life it is a little hard to say but anxiety would be someone talking to fast or doing too many things and not necessarily doing them well or not finishing them. Anxiety is that knot in your stomach or in your chest that makes you feel like your heart is going to explode. It’s your mind racing with thoughts so fast that you can’t calm down. I had that just this morning so. Um and you just have to stop what you’re doing, realize that you are out of control. Sort of somehow get yourself distracted or change what you are doing to something that is healthier and get out of that mind frame.
Interviewer: Yeah and um what’s important for other patients to know? 
Speaker: About
Interviewer: About 
Speaker: anxiety