Interviewer: So as far as scientific research, given to patients or parents, do you think it’s something we should talk about in the videos?
Speaker: I honestly think that’s just going to, again, now I’m sure there are a lot more severe cases than what my daughter has, so depending on the severity of the situation, I think you may find a parent a lot more involved or concerned about what’s going on.
In that particular situation, yeah, they may need a lot more support in terms of what is happening with their child.
As I said before, in my particular situation, I didn’t deem my daughter’s issue to be that severe, although, you know, I don’t know how it compares to some other people, but there were some moments, according to my daughter, where she was freaking out inside, so she wasn’t able to do certain things or didn’t want to go do certain things, and I guess that could metastasize into something else later in life.
So, level of seriousness, yeah, it’s hard to gage, but I didn’t need that, I didn’t feel that I needed to have that kind of research.
So like I said, I didn’t go look it up.
My wife being a physician, you, know, we basically just said, “Hey this is available to us.
The kid’s complaining of a problem, let’s go check this out.
Transcription paused by Aqueena @
Interviewer: Did you know about somebody else’s experience with CBT, if so, was it positive or negative?
Speaker: I did not... nobody that I know was I ever told went into any kind of therapies.
I mentioned before I had friends… we moved to Florida 3 years ago, and come to find out a number of our close friends, half of them, are on antidepressants or undergoing therapy.
I had no clue.
It’s one of these things that ultimately gets around to some of the husbands who talk.
So no, I really had no experience at all with CBT.
Interviewer: So as we said, this interview is all about developing the new videos and also getting feedback on that as well.
So first we need to decide who would be in the video, before I show you this actually, like who would be in the video, what characters do you think it should  ___?
Speaker: Well who are you going to be showing the videos to?
Interviewer: Patients, children, parents.
Speaker: So it’s the first time type.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Also even adults, adults who are actually patients themselves.
So with that in mind, who do you think, who do we need to decide will be in the videos as far as characters?
What characters should we include?
Speaker: Well, I mean, if they’re going to be doing this with kids, if you’re going to be showing this to adolescents, I would want obviously adolescents talking about it.
Girls to girls, boys to boys, type of thing.
As I mentioned to you, I’ve seen a number of kids from my daughter’s school here, and that kind of surprised me.
There’s been a couple of incidents where I’ve found out that other kids
even after we started here, and I don’t know if my wife talked to them or not, the parents of the other kids, but in terms of… I was getting off track there for a second… but yeah, I’d stick to basically if you’ve got kids, then show other kids, and if the parents of the kid, then you need to possibly have a video that speaks to the parent of that child as well, or you know the parent’s obviously going to be savvy enough to sit down and understand their kid watching another kid and what’s going on.