Interviewer 1: So how would you say that it’s been helping him with his feelings?
Speaker: Well unfortunately, he’s not kind of kid who would talk a lot and he’s very busy with school and since uh [____], he’s in a magnet program in middle school so when he comes home at 5pm and he goes to work, you know, finishing his homework, so there’s not a lot of uh, so it’s, there are not a lot of um scenarios that I could see and say “oh okay, that happened and he didn’t respond the right way or he did uh um uh, he-he-he did the right response”. So it was so obvious when my daughter was living with us because they would get in a lot of arguments and I could see that okay, he’s not able to uh actually stand up for himself. He would get upset so quickly and he would leave but at right now, he’s only kid (laughs) at home and he gets all the attention and everything. So and at the school would ask him if he has any issues, if there was any scenario that he thought that made him upset or anything and he always said “no, everything is fine”. So, so that it makes it a little bit difficult if the therapy is working or not because he’s not in it, a situation or environment that I could like “oh okay, he’s exposed to um um cases that his anxiety might kick and, so that’s why it makes it a little bit difficult for me to know if it’s working, if it’s not working because, like I said, he’s not talking a lot at home and um, there’s not a lot of interaction at home that create uh, create the environment or create a scenario that he feels like “okay, now I have to stand up for myself” or “there’s something that I need to address”.
Interviewer 1: Okay, um are there any questions you’d wished you’d asked before starting CBT?
Speaker: Um I think, well, because uh, because of my daughter, with my daughter has ADHD and unfortunately, we addressed it so late. So we uh, so that’s why we started him so early. So right away when I found out okay, this thing could be addressed by therapy so I said “okay, he needs to be uh uh tested”. But whereas for my daughter, unfortunately I didn’t do any study, I just said oh no, she’s uh um uh, if she says “I’m not focused” or she’s impulsive, it’s something that she needs to work on it and you know that’s discipline. So all of this but when she was, at the beginning of senior year, if I’m not mistaken, or at the end of um sophomore year, I’m sorry, junior year. I think we had her to be tested and they said “yes, she has ADHD” and for her, she didn’t get any, oh she, oh I’m sorry. She-she started getting occupational therapy as well as started medication and I saw a huge difference. So even though I might not be able to give you um good answers of what him because, as I said, we found right away and the environment she is-he is right now is not really stressful but for my daughter, I could say that it was phenomenal, the therapy that she got and um, medication, the combination worked very well for her.
Interviewer 1: So you would want other parents to know that they should start as soon as possible?
Speaker: Yes, exactly, as soon as possible.