Speaker: Anything that’s like in this area is everyone’s. Pets are the same way, is it’s on their level, and they think that they can have it. 
Interviewer: Gotcha, no I can relate to that. So the next thing, we’ve already talked about who and why and where and now we get to what, which is what they would talk about. What questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer?
Speaker: It could kind of be playful… it could be what the roles are, like what do I have to do? They should ask about what’s expected of me or what the expectations are. Again, I’m a teacher so I think that’s usually where everything starts. Kids want to know, “What do I have to do?” “What am I allowed to do?” that kind of thing. They always just want to know the rules first, they’re always looking for the rules. As a parent, I also want to know what my role is. Like I said, it was really great to come into this and be invited in as a parent. Also, a couple times they’ve said, “Do you mind stepping out,” “Absolutely, of course, as long as my kid’s okay with that, I’m okay with that.” Making it flexible. So those are kind of big topics to hit on, just making sure it seems friendlier to the children. If they know what’s expected of them from the get go. 
Speaker: If it is going to be more child led or patient led, letting them kind of know… I feel like would be helpful. 
Interviewer: So it sounds like clarifying expectations and roles. Should they be… should they find out about the CBT explanation of how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life? Would that be useful? 
Speaker: I think so. Is CBT used for anything else? Is there other-is it-are most of the people who would be considering CBT, are they people with anxiety? Is it only anxiety, you know?
Interviewer: Uhm… So asking those types, finding out if that would be helpful? 
Speaker: Well if, I wouldn’t talk about anxiety if that specifically-if CBT is used for broader things. But if it is primarily, you know what I mean. 
Interviewer: Got you. 
Speaker: I wouldn’t want to…
Interviewer: Right. So, only if the video was designed for people who were coming in for anxiety would that be useful? Okay. 
Speaker: Yeah. I think so. 
Interviewer: That makes sense. Should they ask about how it has worked for their kids? 
Speaker: Yeah. 
Interviewer: Should they ask about how exposures work?
Speaker: I would think yes? I would say leave it all out on the table. Or as much as possible. It’s a lot to cover but, you know, give a quick little example of what and, you know, that might be enough as a quick little example of even if someone-if it was a casual, silly conversation. Whatever, it could be a game show I could think of a million different ways. It’s been the craziest day, guys.
Interviewer: Okay, Right… No you’re okay. 
Speaker: But it could be a game show where there’s a quiz, you know.
Interviewer: Asking questions.