Interviewer: That makes sense. So for, as a parent, what was your involvement in CBT? As far as the therapy? 
Speaker: So, I’ve always tried to give the option of letting my child just own it and go without me which is not how I normally parent. We’re very involved in each other’s lives but I was like if you need to be away from me, okay. I will accept it, you know. Who knows, maybe it’s me, you know, that is triggering a bunch of things. So, kind of, letting a little person makes some, what feels like, big decisions is interesting. Of course, as a parent, it is a lot of you have to think about the expense just the logistics of making it all happen. Then, so far we have had everybody it’s always very welcome and inclusive and saying you can come in, you know, you can be a part or role in any way that you want. I’ve always checked with my daughter every and anytime and say okay do you want me to stay out or if you need me to come in. Whatever you want, everyone always seems very flexible about making it work out however it needs to be. In our case there were times where I’d have to sort of nudge and be like okay I think you should. Have you worked on, have you done your homework yet for that? The regular parenting- the regular parenting things or just recognizing, you know, we would come up with code words or whatever to kind of help when they’re out and about in the world. Kind of see that going on, and she’s even had that before with me and she’ll be texting me code words when she’s in a social situation so that I’m just kind of alert. Okay, she’s feeling the anxiety rising, and usually we have made some plans ahead of time like what that would be and it’s never like abort it’s usually like support and I’ll be here to love you while this goes on but this is- we’re in it kind of together type thing and it’s always worked out way better. We rarely ever need the plans but just having, I think, that feeling of support that’s just- in whatever form it has needed to be but I feel like that’s just kind of parenting in general. So I don’t know that’s just parenting with CBT would be normal parenting. 
Interviewer: It’s useful for us to know. I mean, that’s your experience. 
Speaker: But I guess everybody parents different, I don’t know so. 
Interviewer: And you mentioned kind of your experience and you mentioned like some of the things that you kind of have to know before you get into it are the logistics and the expense. 
Speaker: Yeah. 
Interviewer: Is there anything else that would be useful for other parents to know before they kind of have their child jump into this? 
Speaker: I don’t know anything else, yeah. 
Interviewer: That’s fine, yeah. Okay, so the next several or few questions, I guess, is going to be kind of… geared at kind of how you-where you’ve heard about CBT outside of the clinic and outside of [32:16] ____. So the first one is kind of about movies, TV, internet, and other people. So how much did you know about CBT from these other things? 
Speaker: Nothing. 
Interviewer: Nothing? Okay… Did you ever- or have you ever read or heard any scientific research about CBT? 
Speaker: No. 
Interviewer: No? Is that something, you know, if we did these videos or as we are thinking about these videos would that be something that would be useful to be talked about in the videos? Or do you think it wouldn’t really be-have an effect. 
Speaker: I mean I feel like everybody loves a bullet point, you know like a statistic any sort of research based quick- if it’s quick. 
Interviewer: So quick research base like bullet points, statistics 
Speaker: Statistics, yeah like a statistic. Whatever, anything that has to do with it. Success rates, I don’t know, how many- I don’t know.