Interviewer: So it may not necessarily…
Interviewee: Numbers like I always feel like that gives validity to something when you can put a value on it and numbers tend to do that.
Interviewer: When you say numbers or statistics, can you clarify what that would be like?
Is that some kind of percentage of something or is that some other?
Interviewee: Yeah, maybe.
Maybe, I like percentage but I also like bar graphs or pie charts.
Interviewer: Pie charts?
Interviewee: You know, a quick understandable- because I would think if you’re looking at options, you know, there would be other types of therapies that you could do as well.
Yeah.
Interviewer: Some kind of comparison?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think, I don’t know.
Interviewer: That’s perfectly- perfectly fine.
Interviewee: They’ll have to shop everything now and sort of compare.
Interviewer: Everyone’s kind of like a consumer of multiple things.
Interviewee: Right.
Well I mean just even, this is sort of, you know, you have to be active in this.
It’s not a pill you can swallow but you can also swallow pills that will help you through some of these things and it can be a conjunction.
I could see, you know, just presenting in anyway, especially if you’re trying to convince people to go the route of it, which I would think would be the thing is showing it in a beneficial light in comparison to just medication or talk therapy or I don’t even know if that’s what it’s called but that’s what I call it.
Something else to give it, kind of, a measurement- a visual measurement like something- yeah.
Interviewer: Visual- okay, some visual representation and something that’s maybe measureable or something like that.
Okay.
Alright.
Interviewee: An infographic.
You know people love infographics.
Like really really
.
Interviewer: No!
I get what you’re saying.
Yeah, an infographic, people do like infographics it seems.
Okay and you said you didn’t really know about anyone else’s experiences with CBT, right?
Okay.
Interviewee: Not coming into it.
Now I do but not a whole lot.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: But because of my position I end up talking- because I’m involved with so many children and so many families and often working with different families and children- not my child but, you know, somebody else and learning okay so we were here before and now because- you know- I’ve had parents mention before that they are doing CBT with their children on different
Interviewee: you know, oh my gosh you should… and I’ll be like yes isn’t it amazing!
Or you know.
Interviewer: So it sounds like it was mostly positive?
Interviewee: Yes!
I’ve never heard anything negative.
Interviewer: Well we do like- we love to hear that.
No but- right.
Interviewee: I don’t hear a lot about it.
But it’s not like I’ve never heard anybody be oh this was horrible and the biggest waste of time, now we’re really messed up.
Interviewer: Gotcha.
I mean and if it did-
Interviewee: If it did-
Interviewer: It would be good to know, right?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: So it sounds like pretty much all positive even the little bit that you’ve heard.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Alright so we’re almost at the part where we’ll talk about specifically the video.
This last question; when you first learned about it, which again I know we’re going back a little bit, think of three words to describe how you felt about CBT?
Or if you can, what those words would be.
For describing CBT.
Interviewee: I think the only thing I can think of is, you know, sort of tongue and cheek.
It’s just like-
Interviewer: That’s okay.
It can be like if what came to your mind for describing it when you first found out about it or how you felt about it if it’s sort of tongue and cheek, that’s okay.
That’s your personal answer.
Interviewee: It just seems obvious like it’s almost so easy- it seems so obvious.
Duh- why wouldn’t you treat it this way?
Interviewer: Okay, so obvious.