Interviewer: And are there any questions you wished you would have asked before you started CBT or your daughter?
Interviewee: No I before... I was going through CBT before either of my kids started and I kind of landed to it not really knowing what it was and it’s probably what has saved my life.
I grew up feeling suicidal the whole way through even as an adult.
Even though I never actually did anything, I never wanted to be alive.
CBT has helped me find more joy in everyday life and even though I still struggle and will probably continue struggling um I know I can choose not to let it overwhelm me.
I have been given some tools to deal with the pain, the frustration, the anxiety, all of the things that are wound up in anxiety and depression.
Interviewer: So would you say before starting it was really you… your question is what is this because you were going into not really knowing what to expect.
Interviewee: I interviewed several therapists and counselors beforehand and at the time I was faculty at [LOCATION].
So I didn’t want someone who was affiliated with [LOCATION] at first because I thought that it would be too humiliating and um I’ve had bad experiences with psychologists as a child.
Um tried some family therapy and it was… it was too much anger, too much pain, and it didn’t do any good.
I was afraid of the stigma of going to see someone for your mental health, not mental health, but for your emotional wellbeing.
So really there was a women who incense burning in her room and she had Buddhist practically written everywhere and it was a big turn off and um you know the rooms here are comfortable.
They are not beautifully decorated you know, but they’ve got nice pictures you know.
You know that you are in a safe place and a safe... the people I’ve met here are patient and thoughtful, positive, and um just helpful so.
Interviewer: And what is your involvement in your child’s overall CBT therapy?
Interviewee: So her counselor or her psychologist lately like for the last several visits has invited me into the sessions maybe for 10-15 minutes to let her know what I think should be covered because sometimes my daughter forgets mention certain things or just flat out doesn’t want to talk about it.
I don’t know.
So she tries to get my perspective first and then I leave and go back to the waiting area and then they can discuss things.
Interviewer: Awesome and what would be useful for other parents to know that maybe have a child that is about to go into CBT or is in CBT?
Interviewee: Be patient.
Love your child no matter what.
Sometimes we are the cause of some of their problems and we don’t realize it and hopefully the therapist or the counselor would let us know somehow.
Although there have been certain times where I would say something or do something I meant it in a way to keep my child safe or I’m trying to protect her from something, but she doesn’t have that perspective.
She feels like she is being restricted or um that I’m being mean to her and so her counselor knew after talking with me individually sometimes with my daughter in the therapy and me out in a separate room quickly, I would let her know what my perspective was and she knew I wasn’t trying to be a jerk.
I was trying to do the right thing for my child.
So that helped her be able to help my daughter realize that I was coming from a place of concern and she was possibly you know you got let the child feel the way they are going to feel, but help them realize that the parent has a different view of things and has different experiences and is trying to be helpful.
It opens up communication between the parent and the child.