Speaker: It’s almost like um having to reinvent the wheel because the wheel is there, and you have to have it function like the wheel, its gonna have to do the job of a wheel, but it can’t necessarily have that same shape the wheel has always had and move the same way the wheel has always moved. So we are gonna have to come up with a new way, a reformed way how are we going to take this object which is the brain of the person and we are going to help it get to the same end goal and may be work around and function slightly differently so we can get there and not get hung up. Umm, so that’s kind if the first logical thing that comes to mind, I guess for me is reinventing the wheel in some way. 
Interviewer: That’s a good piece of imagery too, the wheel.
Speaker: Yeah, I’m just not that creative, honestly.
Speaker: That’s ok
Speaker: I just can’t think of any images as far as that goes.
Interviewer: Yeah I mean it’s a very abstract concepts. You know, cause’ it’s kind of like why we are curious of these words like how they, how they imagine it cause’ a lot of times it might just be your personal experience comes to mind. 
Speaker: Right which can be a little different for each person.
Interviewer: So, as I said in the beginning the main purpose of this is to develop some videos basically for CBT for parents and for kids. So, I have a few questions about that that I would like to go over um so keep in mind that these videos are geared technically towards individuals 10-16 year olds, but also their parents too which is why we want the feedback from both groups regarding what these videos should be. Um so, in terms of the characters, who should be in the video? Who should star and who should be speaking in these videos. 
Speaker: I would think the star would be a child that has already gone through the program and is like I’m here to tell you what you need to know. You know, because I’ve been through it and I’m a kid and I can speak your language. 
Speaker: Right, or more than one kid like you know just. They don’t have to actually I mean, I guess they would be like actors or something, but you know I mean… cohorts.
Speaker: Yeah, like different children that have different diagnoses like one could be like you know I have OCD and anxiety, you know one could have Tourette’s and OCD or you know um
Speaker: Right, like these are my hang ups, these are my issues and how they can vary and how they overcome them.
Interviewer: Right, so depicting like really individualizing it, and really depicting it, Yeah that’s a very important component. 
Speaker: But something that you know anybody coming into the program can relate to, something from one of these characters. You know at least.
Interviewer; Do you think there should be um parents in these videos at all?
Speaker: I don’t think so.
Interviewer: You don’t think there as essential.
26: 48 Speaker: I would think yeah, but maybe not as like… the starring feature of the film, but I think to have maybe them sitting with their child in the office, you know what I mean or something, so they know that the parents are gonna have to pretty much be with you umm the whole time you know, but maybe not as the main star. Yeah I would think the parent should be present because that’s what it is when you are here. 
Speaker: You are very involved, that’s true… But who is this, who is the audiences?
Interviewer: So the audience would be 10-16 year olds to start with and the parents as well.
Speaker: Oh ok yeah
Interviewer: Yeah
Speaker: Well I don’t know I would probably do two separate ones you know
Interviewer: For each of…
Speaker: for each… yes exactly
Interviewer: Right
Speaker: Kids their perspective, parents see the parent’s perspective