Interviewer: So could you tell me if there is any specific skills or areas that CBT targets? It could be in your experience with your daughter.
Speaker: You know, I don’t know because we don’t- you know, NAME and I- we don’t talk about her sessions. So she keeps that as her time for whatever she wants to discuss. I know she has been much more open and communicative with me since she’s started therapy which... is a wonderful thing.
Interviewer: Okay. Good. So, as a parent, what is your involvement with CBT with your daughter-daughters?
Speaker: Well, I bring them obviously.
Interviewer: Yes.
Speaker: But, you know, if we have any… big events that could trigger anxiety or that I think their therapist needs to know about, I will let their therapist know about those issues. But other than- other than that, that’s their time to discuss what they need to discuss.
Interviewer: For other parents, what would be useful for them to know when bringing their child in for CBT?
Speaker: I think that… what I really liked was having that first initial meeting with the therapist to discuss overall, big picture what was going on. To kind of go over what the issues and kind of what the goals were. And check in periodically, especially when the life events happen.
Interviewer: So have you ever heard or read about any scientific articles about CBT or any scientific research?
Speaker: No.
Interviewer: No. Do you think it’s something we should talk about in the videos about CBT? Do you think that would be beneficial to include scientific research?
Speaker: Yeah I think that would be helpful. That would be good information to put out there.
Interviewer: Did you know about somebody else’s experiences with CBT? Did you know anyone else who was in the therapy as well?
Speaker: I have personally had therapy so…
Interviewer: Oh okay.
Speaker: I know that it’s helpful.
Interviewer: So you would say that it’s positive?
Speaker: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay. So as we said, we are trying to develop short videos about CBT so this part of the process is about talking about the video itself. So the setting, the characters, what they would be doing. So first we have to decide who would be in the video. So what characters do you think we should include?
Speaker: I guess that depends on your age range.
Interviewer: Okay.
Speaker: That you’re targeting.
Interviewer: So the videos would be for parents and children so we’re not sure if we’re going to be doing a separate video for parents or a separate video for children. So if it were one video for both children and parents, what do you think the characters should be?
Speaker: Probably a parent and child if you’re looking for a parent and child video.
Interviewer: Should there be any non-human characters like animals?
Speaker: Probably, if you’re looking to target children.
Interviewer: Or superheroes? Kids like superheroes these days.
Speaker: Yeah. Depending on your age- depending on the age you’re trying to target.
Interviewer: So for the children should we include a boy or a girl or?
Speaker: To target the boy group, you’re probably going to want a boy.
Interviewer: Yeah. Or both that could be an option as well.
Speaker: That’s true.
Interviewer: So you said parents, should we include a doctor or friends?
Speaker: …For the target group of- I mean is the goal of the video to… you know, just help parents understand why it’s helpful?
Interviewer: So the goal of the video itself is to inform people about CBT.
Speaker: Okay.
Interviewer: Whether that’s the parents or the child.
Speaker: Okay… Then probably a doctor. That would be helpful.
Interviewer: So now we know who would be in the video. We need to decide where they would be talking. So do you have any ideas of where they could be?
Speaker: If you’re going to have a doctor, probably in a doctor’s office. You know, or if it’s a therapist then a therapists office.
Interviewer: So should we have anything about at home or at school? Or even somewhere unrelated.