Interviewee: I guess if I’m giving feedback on um, as far as whatever the end product is to make sure that it is something that all kids would feel comfortable with and not just males or females.
Interviewer: And that lends well in to what I am; this next question is what do you think the take home message from the video should be?
Interviewee: I would say that the take home message would be like in a way they always go like “ask your doctor about so and so” but it would be like a way they show CBT can be to help and that it’s a tool.
You want the child to be able to go like “man I could use that, I could really; that would help me a lot.”
You see, if it gives them an answer as far as something that connects to them and an option I think that that’s kind of what the CBT, for me, needs to be.
It needs to be like “I want to try that; that looks good; it might work”
Interviewee: That they’re not alone, um, with working through this.
That there’s a team.
I know my daughter the feedback she gave me early on was um she didn’t realize how nice everyone would be and helpful everyone would be.
When somebody’s coming into this there’s a lot of anxiety because I think that um, well I don’t know so I’ll just talk about my daughter’s experience but she thought she was in trouble, she’s here because she’s in trouble.
And so I think letting a person know that there’s a process, this is normal, you’re not doing this alone, um there’s a team of us together, the holding the hand type of approach.
Interviewee: And the kids themselves, it think because they feel different, they feel strange, or weird, or they have all these emotions and why is it that Billy who’s next to me doesn’t do that.
So it’s like they need to be able to have something to discern to pull them going like “Hey Billy may not be like that, but Bobby is” Kids are out there like you, you’re not alone.
Interviewee: Right and like she just didn’t realize and then um when, um I don’t know what they said to her in the first couple sessions but she came away saying “Well I thought it was just me”
Interviewee: You do because I am a person who has that so I can go like you just feel like wow you’re just so off and everybody else is so right and you feel so different.
If you can make that kid go like “wow I’m not that different and there people like me and they can help me” Get that message to them.
Interviewee: Right and like you know a sense of hope that there is a process and if you are willing to work through the process you can feel more comfortable and not feel as much anxiety about it.
Not alone
Interviewer: Ok.
And finally is there anything that I missed or anything important that I didn’t ask about that you think is relevant to making CBT videos?
Interviewee: I don’t have any additional comment.
Interviewee: I think it’s all basically it’s just the videos that show that there’s help for the kids, you know, it’s an option and let the parents know as well as the kids that just the education of it because some people may not have that out there of “it’s an option”.
And that’s the big point it’s an option and let the people know “hey I’m going to try it”
Interviewee: How long were you going to make the video, were you all targeting; have you all thought about how long you’re going to make the video for?
The length of it.