Interviewer: If someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, how would you respond to that, from what you’ve learned from this process?
Speaker: High levels of anxiety can definitely hinder your ability to interact with others, or maybe overreact to help what people say to you. So it can definitely hinder your ability to fully function. 
Interviewer: What do you think is important for other patients to know about CBT?
Speaker: It’s not painful. 
Interviewer: Can you elaborate more on that?
Speaker: I’m not super familiar on how the therapy goes on that, but what I understand is it is something that will help you to understand yourself better.
Interviewer: So are you saying you’re not as familiar with maybe the mechanisms?
Speaker: Yeah, I’m not really familiar with the mechanisms of how it’s done. 
Interviewer: Right. Are there things you wish you knew, like in terms of how CBT operates, do you wish you had more knowledge on that?
Speaker: I guess so, yeah. It would probably be useful if I knew more about how it works. Maybe how a typical session might run. 
Interviewer: Okay so like the structure of a normal session, of what that looks like. You think that would be useful information for other people to see as well?
3:59: Speaker: I do. 
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who’s just starting CBT? Is there any piece of advice you would give them, whether it be someone who’s going in themselves or… we’ll just start with that- someone going in for themselves. 
Speaker: I definitely believe mental health is very important, just generally. If you were sick, physically sick, I mean you wouldn’t think much about going to the doctor, and they give you something to try- I mean we would try pretty much anything that they would suggest if we thought it would help. So CBT, from what I understand is something that has been successful. You know, people have had success in improving their mental health, so I would highly recommend trying it. 
Interviewer: In terms of you’ve heard it’s successful, have you encountered anything from a scientific perspective? Have you encountered scientific articles or anything like that?
Speaker: No, I have not. Nothing deeply scientifical.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell parents, like if there was a parent of a child who was going to go into CBT? What would you want them to know?
Speaker: I would think for me as a parent, sometimes it’s a little hard for me to understand what exactly is going on in the therapy, and I think sometimes you expect… not expect… I mean you could have really fast results, but I think you have to understand there’s a gradual process that does take time to go through, for a patient to work through. 
Interviewer: So it’s not necessarily an instant thing? As nice as that would be?
Speaker: Right. It would be nice. I don’t know if adults, but it was proved that kids, it seems takes a while for kids to kind of get that relationship with a therapist. It would be nice if we were all really truthful when we went to the doctor. That was one of my favorite shows that I used to watch was Doctor House. Everybody lies- I hope that’s not true. I suspect for kids maybe it’s not that easy to be fully truthful in the beginning.
Interviewer: If you had to think of or say three words that describe CBT to you, or three words that come to you head when you think of CBT, what would those words be?
Speaker: Three words, okay. So it’d be like “Develop better habits.”
Interviewer: ____ talked about earlier how you’re identifying things that may not be the most useful for yourself
Speaker: Yeah.