Interviewer: That’s great. And the second one was educational. So if you think of a picture, a vision in your mind of what that would look like?
Speaker: Educational there would be… just the joy of acknowledging things that were so clear. You know things going back to like the briefcase, you know if the handle was crooked my son would concentrate on why the handle was crooked instead of everything else that was going on. When he got passed that he was aware of things and it was very nice to see him not worrying about the crooked handle on the briefcase.  So it was very, it was educational to me because I never knew that his problem was stuck on the little things that concerned him. Because I didn’t really understand OCD
Interviewer: Right. So with that being said, your last word was overjoyed. How would overjoyed look? 
Speaker: Again a little boy is sitting with the little caption above him going “Wow” because being focused on what he was focused on, he wasn’t focused on anything else. It would be joy. 
Interviewer: Joy that sounds great. The goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety. If someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Speaker: If anxiety became a problem?
Interviewer: Yeah, if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Speaker: It’s in everyone’s life, constantly anxiety is there. How we overcome anxiety is the problem. I mean when someone cuts you off on the road, you know you get anxious and wonder when the next person will come in. It shouldn’t interfere with what you have to do, but it does. 
Interviewer: So based on that answer, what is important for other patients to know about that?
Speaker: Anxiety is always there you know it has to dealt with and it has to be able to come quickly, as far as I’m concerned.
Interviewer: Could you tell me if there are any specific skills or areas that CBT targets?
Speaker: I just know it held my son back on dealing with certain problems because he was stuck on what he was looking at.  I really don’t know how to answer that. 
Interviewer: So do you feel like CBT targets a patients thoughts, feelings, or actions? The cognitive behavioral therapy?
Speaker: Yes. I mean no actions are wrong however anxiety gets you stuck and there’s no action. I don’t know that much about it, I can say it’s a result because of my son. 
Interviewer: So that being said, are there any questions you wish you’d asked before starting CBT sessions? 
Speaker: I wish, the first day I wish I could’ve said is this really going to work. But as it went on, I got to see that it works and how it works. 
Interviewer: Ok. So are there any other questions, other than that, that you wanted to ask before you started CBT?
Speaker: I wanted to ask; yes I mean I wanted to ask why so many different therapists had to be part of it. I didn’t know that because when I had therapy in my life it was always with one person, not a whole group. And the group was really good because they had different ways of going about it, explaining it. And ways of dealing with it. But they all hit the focal point and it was amazing. 
Interviewer: So what was your involvement in the CBT treatment? What would be useful for other parents to know? But more importantly with the first question, what was your involvement in your son’s treatment? 
 Speaker: I got a clear sight of what was wrong with him. I didn’t see it as clear as what the therapist was showing. When he was getting stuck and when he just had to move on. And I didn’t know that.