Interviewer: So in your experience as a parent of a child who has gone through CBT, what was that experience like for you?  
07: 34 Speaker: Well I mean I think overall it’s helpful in terms of… you know providing [07:50] __ … I don’t know. I guess for me I not really involved in the day to day. I only see the outcome. I would say at least for my older son certainly definitely seemed to help him and you know dealing with school and performance anxiety, you know those issues. So I think it has been positive for him. I think it has helped him gain perspective on what is going on. I think it helped to destigmatize it to a certain extent. I think it made him more self-aware of the issues and you know helped him deal with it so I think that there is some partial possible benefits.  So for me I guess it has been helpful. You know because of patient confidentiality you don’t really have much insight to what is actually happening on a day to day bases. Somewhat dependent on what the child tells you which… so I don’t have a good sense of what the individual activities he did or what… you know I have some sense they were essentially trying to you know throw curveballs and sort of disrupt you know such [09:58] ___  still function in a chaotic environment. I think there was an attempt to make it fun and enjoyable, not stressful. So I think that was… maybe something that I thought was… I kind of had a maybe bias that you know essentially it was more of a graded response and that you kind of helped people get over their level of anxiety with… elicited.  I don’t know I think I had an unpleasant association sort of with that idea that you would be sort of stressing them, and I think that’s what was most surprising to me was that it was not as stressful as um…. That my son actually seemed to enjoy it and look forward to it, rather than being negative as something to get through. That was definitely not… unexpected sort of so. 
Interviewer: In what ways was that unexpected umm, like in what ways was that unexpected for you? It sounds like there was a different preconception kind of going in to thinking what it would look like.
Speaker: I think that my preconception is essentially stress them out until the anxiety subsides and that they don’t… you know that’s a difficult process because you have induce the anxiety in order to show that’s it’s not going to cause harm or the adverse [12:01] ___ are anticipated are not actually going to happen, and to me that worries me from what I think. From what I heard there was a lot of humor, a lot of ways to sort of deescalate the situation and made it a less unpleasant situation than I would have expected.
Interviewer: Is that kind of the knowledge you acquired about it there being more perhaps to CBT than just the kind of like the mechanism side of things. Is that something that would be important for other parents to know if they are contemplating whether or not to have their child go through CBT?
Speaker: When you say the mechanisms, do you mean like neurochemical reprogramming or do you mean the mechanisms in terms of what actually happens in CBT?
Interviewer: I think more the latter where in terms of you expose yourself to a stimulus to induce anxiety and then learn that the feared outcome is not actually happening, but you mention that also there seems to be some fun involved and there were other things that made it..