Interviewer: Okay. That’s good to know. Well, if there’s nothing else, thank you so much for your time and your feedback and for taking the time out to do this interview with us. It’s really appreciated. 
Speaker: Thank you!
Interviewer: Ok, thank you so much for meeting with us today. I’m working with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavior therapy and the kind of therapy your daughter has been doing, and for this project we want to develop a short educational video that would describe this type of therapy and give a little more insight to patients and family to what they can expect from cognitive behavior therapy. Also, cognitive behavior therapy is pretty long so throughout I’m just going to shorten it to CBT. So to start can you tell me what comes to mind when you think of CBT.
Speaker: A therapist or psychologist talking with the adolescent about, or even an adult, about ways to handle different stressors um so… um it’s something that helps to reframe how a child sees or experiences what they think is a problem.
Interviewer: Yeah, definitely so helping them handle certain stressors and kind of reframing their cognition and could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words. What would you explain what it is? 
Speaker: Can you restate the question.
Interviewer: Yes, so in your own words if you had to provide a definition of what CBT is, what would you say that it is? I know kind of what you mentioned is what comes to mind to you is kind of a good definition. You know kind of summarize that.
Speaker: Narrow it down. Cognitive behavior therapy would be… not supposed to say the same word in the definition. Therapy or meeting one-on-one with a CBT trained specialist or psychologist with a patient um and to try to change behavior by thinking of things in a different way.
Interviewer: Yeah, ok awesome! And when you first learned about this type of therapy that we do here, do you remember if you had any questions or if there was something specific you wanted to know about CBT?
Speaker: Well, I also have gone through considerable CBT therapy so when it came time for my daughter to um go through it as well I didn’t hesitate to put her in it because I knew it was something that worked. 
Interviewer: Yeah so from personal experience you didn’t really have any questions. You kind of knew what to expect. 
Speaker: Right. Well for… I didn’t know what to expect for her specifically. So it’s been interesting to watch the changes happen.
Interviewer: Yeah, and how much did you know about CBT from movies, the media, TV, other people, and if so did this match yours or your child’s experience?
Speaker: So would this involve mindfulness as well or...?
Interviewer: Yeah 
Speaker: Ok. I mean I can think of a Star Trek movie that indicated being in the moment and how I can relate that to slowing down time and getting things to work differently or better. Say the question one more time.
Interviewer: Yeah um so how much did you learn or hear about CBT from movies, TV, internet, media, any of those outside sources?
Speaker: Um there… I’m a Christian so there are a couple of Christian songs that indicate breathing techniques you know slow down,  appreciate where you are, and take a breath, or take a deep breath and hold on. So songs definitely, movies a couple of movies specifically that Start Trek one I don’t remember the name of it. It was with Jean Picard. Um TV, I don’t watch TV much so I cants say much to that um and most people do not talk about therapy so I can’t say that it was anything from what someone said.
Interviewer: Um so what was described in the Star Trek movie and some of the songs you heard? Do those thing being described match yours and your daughter’s experiences with CBT? 
Speaker: Part of it yeah.