Interviewer: Maybe? 
Speaker: I’m kind of a big kid so it doesn’t really, I don’t count.  I don’t know I don’t relate to the adults [laughter]. 
Interviewer: What would your preference be would it be to be animated or live action?
Speaker: I just want it to be funny.
Interviewer:  You just want it to be funny? Okay.
Speaker: Lighthearted because it’s really stressful.
43:19: Interviewer: Right.
Speaker: It’s really stressful to be worried about someone else and even yourself and realize like you know there’s work to be done I’ve got to make some decisions so I’d rather it be informative, fast, and sort of upbeat and lighthearted because everything’s stressed anyway so um yeah.
Interviewer: Okay. I think that those are some really good key words like informative, fast…
Speaker: Don’t want it to be too self-reflective…
Interviewer: But adding some lightheartedness.
Speaker: Yeah.
Interviewer: That makes sense. I get that. Um so as far as what’s in the videos, again these characters, should we have any nonhuman characters?
Speaker: Definitely.
Interviewer: Definitely? Okay so animals?
Speaker: Sure.
Interviewer: Okay, what are some nonhuman characters maybe?
Speaker: I don’t know I’m just really stuck on robots right now.
Interviewer: Okay.
Speaker: I’m in a robot phase so I do a lot of robot stuff with my students and we talk about our brains all the time, we kiss our brains all the time, and we have a brain train. And we have train robbers that rob the brains and I make all kinds of silly little animations. So I was thinking sense my daughter’s OCD is named Mr. Waffles, I can totally play out a video in my head of Mr. Waffles trying to get on the train with her and then kicking him off. But that’s just what she chose to name her OCD. So…I don’t know, right now it feels like Looney Toons in my head so it would be a funny thing.
Interviewer: Okay so funny, Looney Toons, possibly animals, possibly some robots.
Speaker: Yeah, yeah. Not people.
Interviewer: Not people? Okay.
Speaker: I don’t know why.
Interviewer: No that’s fair. Okay so should there be any superheroes?
Speaker: Um, they would be their own superheroes.
Interviewer: They’d be their own superheroes? Okay.
Speaker: Everyone wants to be their own superhero.
Interviewer: No yeah that’s fair. You know I understand that for sure. I think a lot of people definitely have the desire to be a superhero. 
Speaker: Well it’s harder for kids too because you gotta worry about, do they identify with that kid or are they the right ethnicity, is it a boy is it a girl, is it a whatever.  And if it’s already a nonperson then they already like it and accept it and don’t compare themselves to it.  
Interviewer: That’s a good point and that leads me to my next question; should we include children in the video and if so should it be a boy, girl or both?
Speaker: Yeah. I don’t know. Could be Chris Pratt.
Interviewer: Could be Chris Pratt.
Speaker: Is it a boy is it a girl. We don’t know… I give them choices all the time with how they identify themselves or represent themselves you know and I’m always like surprised at what comes back and so given creative freedom you know often times it can be therapeutic to not be yourself sometimes.  I don’t know that it would be relatable as relatable you know if you’re trying to, if you want a child to personally relate immediately then it might be more obvious if you made it people. But, maybe more entertaining and pay a little closer attention if it wasn’t people.
Interviewer: Gotcha. So would we include parents, or friends or doctors or would those like kind of fit the non-people?
speaker: I don’t know. Like at what point? Like if they were trying to decide if they were gonna, or inform them on what it is.