Speaker: Yeah yeah and it makes you go back.
So I relive these things every time I talk about them unfortunately.
So um there was this time in sixth grade where my mom who is schizophrenic and bipolar.
My parents got divorced in third grade so my mom... so I was living alone with my mom and my brother and sister lived with my dad.
So the situation was my mom wanted to know what I thought about moving to Canada.
We were living in Colorado and it scared me enough somehow that I contacted my brother and sister who were living with my dad and within that week custody changed from me being with my mom to me being with my dad.
So I felt guilty for so many years for most of my life that I left mom when I promised her that I wouldn’t.
So in cognitive behavior therapy the question posed to me was what would have happened if you had stayed with your mom?
So I had to think.
Well we could have ended up homeless.
We could have… oh and so a result of me leaving also was that she got hospitalized.
So in the scheme of things it had a good outcome, although for the longest time I felt bad.
It made me reconsider so that I didn’t need to feel the guilt and the shame um that I had and that it was ok the way it turned out and um…
Interviewer: Yeah, so would you say maybe a picture that could be associated with the reframing would be someone sitting with a therapist or someone  ___ showing support or
Speaker: Yes, showing support um helping them to realize that there is more than one choice.
Interviewer: Yeah ok awesome.
So the goal of CBT many times is to reduce anxiety, so if someone asked you how anxiety becomes a problem in one’s life what would you say it looks like?
Speaker: Um having lived with it all of my life it is a little hard to say but anxiety would be someone talking to fast or doing too many things and not necessarily doing them well or not finishing them.
Anxiety is that knot in your stomach or in your chest that makes you feel like your heart is going to explode.
It’s your mind racing with thoughts so fast that you can’t calm down.
I had that just this morning so.
Um and you just have to stop what you’re doing, realize that you are out of control.
Sort of somehow get yourself distracted or change what you are doing to something that is healthier and get out of that mind frame.
Interviewer: Yeah and um what’s important for other patients to know?
Speaker: About
Interviewer: About
Speaker: anxiety
Interviewer: how anxiety can become a problem in someone’s life or um what’s important to know just for someone who is experiencing those things?
Speaker: Its ok for you to get help.
You don’t have to live with the fear.
That fear that’s stalking or inside of you that feels so strong that’s going to overwhelm you every single day, you don’t have to live like that.
You don’t have to feel that and it’s not bad and it’s not wrong to ask for help to to find that help or ask a trusted adult to help you find that adult that assistance.
Interviewer: Awesome and so could you tell me any skills or specific areas that CBT targets.
I know we talked about anxiety, but is there anything else that comes to mind.
Speaker: Depression.
I know um post-traumatic stress disorder is also kind of part of the anxiety but that helps as well.
I don’t know the answer whether or not CBT can solve problems in people who are genetically predisposed which my kids are and I am due to my mom’s history.
So there’s probably a psychiatric medicine type component that may need to be included and again there is no shame in that.
Interviewer: Yeah definitely and so would you say that it targets thoughts feelings and actions.
Speaker: Yes