Speaker1: Yeah that’s like you know… like it’s a lifestyle change. It’s how I view it. It’s just an everyday, every you know… and it does get better, it does get better, buts it never I don’t feel like it’s ever been perfect like oh we’re cured know lets be done, we’re done, we do not have to do this anymore. I feel like we still do it.
Interviewer: It’s ongoing.
Speaker: It’s ongoing… to a lesser degree hopefully.
Interviewer: Ok um is there anything talking about CBT and videos for CBT that I’ve missed or you feel like it’s important to mention that we haven’t gone over already?
Speaker: I can’t think of anything. I feel like we covered…
More than I ever expected…
Speaker: Yeah I feel like we covered from my experience so far yeah. 
Interviewer: Ok is there anything that came up with you that you want to mention at all?
Note taker: There was one part in the beginning where both of you were talking about how don’t be afraid to ask for help um when it comes to kind of like warning others about how hard CBT could be and I just wrote what do you mean by help like in terms of like babysitting in terms of like…
Speaker: I think in any way you can get support for your family um because when you have a child that is going through something like this the attention that they need is kind of all-consuming, and um you can’t… if you have other children it does become more difficult to kind of evenly distribute your attention to them so by having any help whatsoever from family or friends while you are kind of going through just be it to… umm maybe just help take some load off by helping at home, you know fixing a dinner or taking a couple of the children off to playdates, or um even just being there as someone to bounce ideas off of. I think just that overall physical and emotional support.  
Speaker: Or to even reinforce the things that you are trying to accomplish like you know if they see their grandmother let them in on it, and say this is what we are dealing with now and if you could react this way you know and deal with this type of manner you know reinforce how you what you are taught in therapy, how to a deal with a situation and you that is also um helpful.
Speaker: Yeah definitely.
Note taker: That was all 
Interviewer: That was all?
Note taker: Yeah 
Interviewer: , my name is …So I’m just going to ask you a series of questions similar to what and you all talked about during the consent portion. So I want to thank you for participating and meeting with me today. As we said this research is about finding and just creating a few short educational videos that basically describe what we do here with CBT and cognitive behavior therapy and what that really is and getting perspectives from parents as well as children as to what they think CBT is and what their experiences have been here as well. And so instead of cognitive behavior therapy I might say CBT just because it’s a lot to say cognitive behavior therapy a bunch of times. So if you hear me saying CBT, that’s what I’m saying. Ok, sounds good? Alright, so to start please tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT?
Speaker: Success. I’ve seen great changes in my son the past.
Interviewer: Ok. Could you elaborate? What success have you seen from him?
Speaker: I’ve seen him change his focus instead of getting stuck on certain things an certain elements hew moves on much quicker than he ever moved on before. 
Interviewer: Ok. Awesome. Could you tell me what you know about CBT? In your own words how would you explain to someone what CBT is?
Speaker: I don’t know how to explain it.
Interviewer: That’s completely fine if you feel that you can’t explain it.