Interviewer 1: Like do you think they should find out about the CBT explanation about CBT can become a problem in someone elseĺs life?
Speaker: I think that would be great, yeah, because I think that some parents might uh feel like okay, itĺs nothing.
Because I had this conversation with a couple of my colleagues before having my son to be tested.
I said my son was like this, he did this, I donĺt know why heĺs doing it.
And my colleague said oh you know, itĺs just the age, itĺs just a phase, you know, itĺs a phase, itĺs going to uh go away.
Eventually, they going to learn.
So eventually going to learn, yes they might but um if there is something that can make the lives of our kids easier, why shouldnĺt we do it?
So I think itĺs very important that uh saying that if you donĺt address something maybe as simple as anxiety, what are the impacts itĺs going to have?
Itĺs going to impact their confidence, itĺs going to impact uh on their relationships, uh it could be personal relationships, could be friendship.
So I think yeah, definitely.
And I think itĺs very important that show parents that they shouldnĺt make like, they shouldnĺt think that oh itĺs something that is going to go away by itself.
In my case, I thought oh okay, itĺs just the sibling but not for my son, as I said, for my daughter.
No, you have to work hard [
], you know?
At this point I feel like if there is something that could help our kidsĺ lives easier, you should do it.
Interviewer 1: So you show them that there is an option that is available to them?
Speaker: Yeah
Interviewer 1: Helps make their kidsĺ lives easier?
Speaker: Yeah, yes.
Interviewer 1: So, should they talk about how itĺs worked for other kids?
Speaker: Yeah, I think so, yeah.
Especially address for that you might not get a lot of, you know, good feedbacks, in terms of if it has worked or not, because, as I said we, [
] so early for him and then itĺs so early in the process, but other parents that uh you have had this interview and uh their feedbacks and what worked for them, I think that would be great if you include it without mentioning the names or
Interviewer 1: Right, right.
Um, and uh should they ask about what parents can and canĺt do to help?
Speaker: Um ů I, I think so.
Yeah, I think showing that their involvement is going to be important, yeah but at the same time, not making it oh okay.
Because some parents say oh then why Iĺm bringing my kid to the therapy if Iĺm going to be as involved?
So it should be the way that, you know what, if you want to see the great impact then you need to be engaged.
So not making it oh okay so, I donĺt know.
Some parents say no, if Iĺm going to have the therapy to help my kid, so why should I be involved?
So then why should I pay?
So Iĺm going to do it myself.
So making it that, you know what, itĺs going to make the loves of both parents and kidsĺ easier but it requires some involvement and support.
Interviewer 1: Support.
Okay, so now we get to the fun part where we get to decide how the videos will look.
So, first of all, are there any cartoons or animated movies that you like?
Speaker: Um ů well, I know that kids like ů Me, I donĺt watch um like animated movies or cartoons but I think kids could be the one could give good examples.
Interviewer 1: So I have three options here and you can take a minute to flip through them.
And then, after youĺve looked through them, could you let me know which style you like the most?
Speaker: Okay ů