Speaker: Yeah I think that would be helpful.  I mean I think that would also depend on the skill of the practitioner. Unrelated thing, my older son wasn’t treated here a long time ago… you know had a run with CBT and it worked. It was more difficult for him. So I think it sort of depends on… it can be dependent on the skill of the practitioner or it may also be dependent on the individual child and how difficult it is to them to deal with so. Yeah, but I think understanding that it is not going to solely an unpleasant experience both for the child and the parent. I think it is helpful. Although again, I think there has to be some realistic expectations, and I mean I guess it also depends on the CBT whether how much they are going to have an expectation that the parent is going to be involved. I think often… therapy is relatively limited and you are going to have to have more outside parental involvement. So I think that can be challenging for parents. It can be difficult to them to put their child in that situation. It is unpleasant for them. So um yeah… it goes against sort of your parental instincts. So I think that can be a challenge that kind of needs to be made clear to parents. That sometimes you are going to be asked or told to do things that are not what you would think, you know. Protecting your child is not always… the best way to move forward. I mean I guess the other thing is consistency…. And um yeah providing consistency because I think that’s important and I think that’s really hard, especially when you are dealing with two different parents. I don’t know. I think that’s getting off topic… I think yeah it’s obviously very helpful to have parents understand what the processes as well as the child. What are the things that they are going to have to confront as they go forward and I don’t know?
Interviewer:  Well what would you are some of those things that they would have to confront? Like what… you were giving some good advice to kind of parent in terms of what to expect, but are there any sorts of specific types of things you’d say would be really useful kind of like as heads-up when some is first entering therapy, like what they should know of in order to be successful.
Speaker: Well I think that the point about… that you are going to… the therapy may contradict your parental instincts. I think that’s important for parents to know. Yeah I mean I think you would have to be able to sit also with your child’s anxiety as well I guess which is similar to that. I think that it’s helpful to know that it will work, you know and I think ….  I think having something about that it at least for some cases it, it is most effective therapy. What else, umm… yeah it’s not going to be always unpleasant. That’s the other thing is sort of the kids are quite are happy too, and they make progress. So I think that’s in some cases true, depends on the child I guess. Umm yeah I don’t know. That’s everything I would probably say.