Interviewer: I’ve heard of those…So here’s some examples.
I’ll show you some styles that we want to get your feedback from.
You can look through these, and basically there’s a line art style for videos, a  ___ art style, there’s a comic book blended with live- action type style.
So take a look at them really quick, and when you’re done let me know which styles are most appealing to you, which ones you like the most and why.
Speaker: Ohhh… so much of this is age dependent.
I mean option 2- definitely the younger kids.
Option 3 may appeal more to the younger high school set, probably some late term middle schoolers.
Interviewer: So you said option 2 for younger kids?
Speaker:
….yeah.
The images… at least the images based here, cartoon characters, I would say yeah you’re appealing to elementary school.
Interviewer: And what did you say about option 3?
Speaker: I can see definitely more high school and maybe like eighth grade.
The maturity level of kids nowadays is, it’s all over the place.
It’s amazing how mature they are for their age.
I mean option 1 I think would appeal more to the adult.
Yeah.
Actually, I think option 1 has been used quite a lot in doing like online fat- burner stuff and things like that.
Herbal medicine type things, you see it.
Interviewer: If you had to choose one for your specific situation, with your daughter and your experiences that you would want to see, which one, if you only had to choose one, would it have to be?
Speaker: In my daughter’s case, 14 years old... I actually think she’d go a lot with line art, option 1.
Because she’s going into 9th grade I just, in her particular situation, I think, just based on what I’ve seen her working at, she would probably… she’s intelligent enough, mature enough, to derive information from a video like that, as opposed to going to a comic book type route/ cartoon situation.
So actually, in a lot of high schools, you probably would get, thinking about it a little more, option 1- adults and young adults.
Interviewer: Okay.
Sounds good.
What do you think the take home message for the videos should be?
Speaker: There’s 3 things I gave you before.
What did I say?
I forgot.
Interviewer: Non- threatening.
Common.
And there was another one.
Helpful.
There you go.
Speaker: Yeah.
Helpful.
Non- threatening.
Common.
In essence, everyone has anxiety.
Therapy is not threatening.
It’s helpful.
That’s not too bad.
I like all three of those.
Interviewer: So going back to that same question you think that same answer applies?
Speaker: Yeah!
In fact, you can say I said that.