Interviewer: How do you handle a child not speaking?
Speaker: Yes. He’s literally spent lots of sessions not saying a word. 
Interviewer: Okay. So that was a question that you had. 
Speaker: Yes, like how do you handle that? Here, I didn’t have anything specific. 
Interviewer: Other than that, that was the major question, but other than that, you didn’t have any other questions?
Speaker: Yep. 
Interviewer: Okay. What did you want to know about CBT when you first started sessions here?
Speaker: I can’t think of anything specific, just how it will happen, how we can help him, what to work on each week. 
Interviewer: How much did you know about CBT from movies, TV, the internet, or other people before coming here?
Speaker: Therapy in general.
Interviewer: Tell me more.
Speaker: Just experience- his older brother is autistic and has generalized anxiety so we’re going through that with him, as well as group therapy for social skills training. My mother went to therapy for years, decades, so I just grew to her experience. I didn’t really have any expectations, just getting help. 
Interviewer: Did all or any of your experiences, or what you knew about CBT match your experiences here?
Speaker: Yeah.
Interviewer: How so?
Speaker: It’s been going well for him, definitely making progress. One step at a time. 
Interviewer: Thinking about your experience, were there any parts of therapy that were confusing?
Speaker: I wouldn’t say so, no. it’s made sense. It can be slow going, obviously, but that’s to be expected.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who’s about to start CBT?
Speaker: Stick with it. It’ll take time. You get out of it what you put into it- which is what I work with him on, because if he’s not saying a word then it’s just a waste of time. So yeah, just stick with it, you’ll see improvement, and you need to participate to help it work. 
Interviewer: Think of 3 words that describe how you felt about CBT when you first learned about it. What would those words be?
Speaker: Hope. Progress. Work. 
Interviewer: Hope, progress, and work. 
Speaker: You got to work at it. 
Interviewer: Okay. If you were to add a picture to each of these words: hope, progress, and work, if you were to add a picture to each of these words, what would it be?
Speaker: Work I guess would just be like a notebook or something, like just thoughts journaling. Progress… just like a graphic that I would attach to it?
Interviewer: Mhm. 
Speaker: Like a reward, like a ribbon or something… reaching goals. Hope… sun? Something to look forward to. Happy. 
Interviewer: So you ___ the sun with happiness?
Speaker: Yeah. Bright.
Interviewer: Okay so tell me a bit about why you chose each picture with each word. So you had journaling for work. So what was that for?
Speaker: The thought that has to go into it. The whole thing of you’re going to get out of it what you put into it. [6:30] ____ the progress for him, we break down the small goals and reward him as he reaches them. So it’s sort of like a ribbon, a generic, he doesn’t get a ribbon, but it’s kind of like a generic thing for meeting a goal. Then the hope I guess was just something kind of seen as positive or happy- the sun or smiley face or something.
Interviewer: Sounds good. The goal of CBT is to reduce anxiety overall, and if someone were to ask you how anxiety becomes a problem in someone’s life, what would you say?
Speaker: Even when things are going well, their anxiety can mess it up. My eldest child says that he’s stressed when he’s not stressed, because he thinks he should be. Like if things are going well, he’s worried he’s missed something. Yeah, so when things are going well or going right, then they’re anxious that there’s something else that they’re missing.