Interviewee: Yeah. Kids like to be empowered. I feel like there’s almost two schools nowadays. The kids that have no power and the kids that have way too much power. There’s not many of the in between kids. I feel like anybody who feels like they’re in a place where they’re needing therapy like this is your thing to do for yourself kind of type thing and makes it user friendly. Again the parent it’s not a thing where you have to poke and nag because usually whatever is on their list is usually on yours including everything else. It really wasn’t a burden other than me getting her here and paying for everything. Again I think it’s just everybody really likes it, it’s convenient, you get fast results, it’s very empowering for your child or it was for us. It just seems effective and also another thing is that there’s no side effects. I almost feel like there could be a parody video or comedy that would just probably be for me but like about how you know there’s all these happy people and they’re like “yes, yes and you might die and your skin may fall off and everything’s burning but there’s still 27% of people that do…” Like everything is said with a smile on the face. Sounds so great but really what they’re telling you is terrible. Like this is not terrible. The risk that is involved in doing this method it’s like pretty low risk for pretty quick results.
Interviewer: Well is there anything that I missed or anything important that I didn’t ask about?
Interviewee: I don’t think so. I just wish that this was more available like just to the public in general. Mental health has become such a big thing, especially with adolescence. Like I have to go to trainings all the time about all these things and I’m in the front lines with people’s kids that are going through all kinds of crazy stuff all the time and its intense and I feel like we get a lot of feedback about our school like “What are the resources?” and some don’t even know. It’s like there’s too many options or not knowing who to ask the right questions. So of course I’m always like “your pediatrician”. It’s almost like an alternative therapy but once you say “alternative therapy” some people immediately think it’s like a chant in the woods or something type thing or you’re going to sign up for this big weird thing so it would be great to have. I think it’s great what you guys are setting out to do and succeeded. People would watch a quick video that gave just enough information to be like “oh, maybe this is something we could do.”
Interviewer: Well I think that is a great note to end it on. Unless did you have any questions?
Note-taker: Nope I think we’re good.
Interviewer: Well thank you so much for your time. You were very very helpful.
Interviewer: Here we go. Okay, so thank you for meeting with us today. So, as I’m asking you questions, it’s going to be about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the therapy that we do here. But cognitive behavioral therapy is a little bit of a mouthful so I’ll refer to it as CBT.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: And you can refer to it as CBT if you’d like. So to start, could you tell me what comes to mind when you think about CBT?
Interviewee: Basically just helping with whatever issues- I mean I think of… specifically what [NAME]- you know just helping with the issues that she has.
Interviewer: Okay. When you say issues, generally what are you speaking of? Could you elaborate a little bit?
Interviewee: [NAME] has anxiety.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: She has always been a... high anxiety child so. She has anxiety issues.
Interviewer: Thank you.
Interviewer: Okay. So could you tell me what you know about CBT in your own words? How would you explain what CBT is?
Interviewee: That is not an easy one for me.
Interviewer: The best you can do.