Interviewer: Were you involvement in any way in the CBT or the therapy sessions?
Or outside of sessions were you involved with his treatment?
Speaker: Yes, I think as a parent you’re involved in every moment of your child’s life.
And I did learn to be much more patient, and I just, I did learn to not be so impatient with him.
Then he’d work things out in his own way and once they showed him the path to go through, he took it.
He’s a very smart boy and it was wonderful.
Interviewer: What would be useful for other parents to know?
Speaker: That I thought it really was a disease that was incurable but it’s not.
Interviewer: Sounds amazing.
Sounds like there’s hope.
Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT and is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Speaker: That’s complex now, what’s the first part again?
Interviewer: Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT?
Speaker: No
Interviewer: But um, If you were to, do you think that’s something we should talk about in the videos?
Speaker: Yes.
I have a blank of ok “what is this?” Just explaining what it is.
Interviewer: Did you know about someone else’s experience with CBT?
Speaker: No but I knew some of his friends had it after he went through the therapy and I wound up seeing one of the here.
Interviewer: Yeah.
What would be useful for those individuals to know?
Speaker: That’s hard to say because I’m a parent of one.
I only know these other boys from watching them from a distance.
So I don’t know how severe it is with them, compared to my son.
But I know all the boys  ___ were very smart and this just allows them to be even quicker and smarter.
Interviewer: So now that we’ve talked about the CBT and your perspective of it, we’re going to start talking more so about the video that we’re going to start developing based on the feedback we’re getting from you all.
So first, we want to decide who will be in the video.
So what characters do you think we should include in the video?
Do you think there should be any non-human characters, like animals?
Do you think there should be superheroes?
Do you think parents, friends, or doctors should be considered?
So, what characters are you thinking of?
Speaker: I’ve had eleven operations since I’ve lived in this city for 24 years.
I watched many videos of what was going to happen to me and the majority of them were boring.
I yawned right through all of them.
Some of them I wouldn’t even pay attention to, and maybe because you see the lab coat walk in and you see them start with their papers and start to speak and it’s like I’m lost at the very beginning.
With kids, superheroes are great.
You know if you think about that because everyone relates to Spiderman or Thor or anyone you come up with.
It’s like ok, but this guy
.
To see someone in a lab coat, like I’ve watched so many and with their tablet in front of them it’s like, I wouldn’t go there.
I…If there was a way to do it, I think a parent could be added just to show shock.
It’s like a kid doing something and a parent being in shock, like they never knew they could complete that so quickly.
You know, just being positive about it.
Interviewer: What about friends?
Would friends be a character you would want to see in the videos?
Speaker: Friends, yes.
Not doctors.
Interviewer: So no doctors?
Um, when it comes to if an adult is watching this video, do any of these characters change for you?
If it’s an adult watching it, an adult who’s the patient, does he even care?
Speaker: I think with mature people working on it can make it fit adults and children.
Like the superheroes fit.
Every adult understands almost every superhero.