Speaker: The uh, yeah I like that idea of like a cartoon person. I mean the only, sometimes, issue you get with, if you have an actual person is that a child might say “that’s not me”. And so if it’s a cartoon character they’re going to listen to what that person they’re not going to immediately not associate with that person. 
Speaker: You can make that character out to be very versatile as far as ethnicity and character and clothes and hair that you can go with a broad spectrum that a lot of people could identify with that character. 
Speaker: I think a lot of if you’re trying to do a video is, what is that main age group that you’re trying; that you think is going to be watching that video. But I would encourage you that whatever that age group is that you think is going to be your target audience, I would go just a type younger because people can always see down they can’t always see up. And I think uh, and could just be my slant on this but, you know you don’t want to show them a video that they can’t relate to because that’s only going to make them feel more powerless. I just think that a lot of it is feeling powerless of you know handling your circumstances or situations and stuff, but it needs to be something that they’re going to feel comfortable with. 
Interviewer: Do you think, in general, parents, friends, doctor, do you think those people should be characters in the video other than the main child or animal or the main character?
Speaker: I think so, because if you have some authority figures in there as far as a doctor or a psychologist or psychiatrist. Somebody or even a teacher or a counselor at school, if you have a figure like that in there, it also might give them an idea of like where else they can get help or where else people can find the tools to learn about CBT, is the caregivers, the teachers, because that gives them focus instead of just the family or the kids or the peers. You know, you kind of need the more well-rounded picture of what life is anyway. I think that would add to it. 
Speaker: I feel like, what you had described earlier about the holding hands and being together and stuff. I think that the more of the influencers on the child that’s causing them anxiety which would be self, home, school, friends, doctors, counselors. I would think that you would want to portray within that, you know to help them see that this is the world which you know, I’m seeking this therapy through. 
Speaker: Because you have to have a whole picture
Speaker: Yeah, that’s right. 
Speaker: to kind of see their whole environment that’s it’s going to add, come into and be a part of.  It gives them hope that they can use it in all parts of their life
Speaker: Right.
Interviewer: And building off of that, you know, we are trying to decide where they’ll talk, where this video will be set. So you know, home, school, doctor’s office, somewhere outside, like a park. Any ideas or inclinations towards those?
Speaker: I kind of see maybe being in an outdoor kind of area, so it seems like it’s a very, um, it’s not a stifling kind of conversation and whoever they’re talking to or talking about, it’s like they’re outdoor or an activity that’s very; they’re on the edge of what’s happening in the real world. A soccer game or some type of thing they’re on an edge talking about this and real life passes you by, it goes on, and continues, but we’re here in this outdoor world and we’re talking about what’s happening to me.