Interviewer: Sounds good.
Now that weĺve talked about both of those, the last thing is what should we decide that they talk about in the video?
Weĺve already started talking about this with the other questions, but what questions about CBT do our characters need to ask and answer within the video?
Should they find out a CBT explanation about how anxiety becomes a problem in someoneĺs life?
Speaker: I think you can talk about that, but you have the person talking about the kind of experiences they have.
Because some people may not evenů again, I didnĺt even really know, and I would dare say thereĺs a lot of kidsů and you hate to think thereĺs that many people out there who have issues.
Again, I think thereĺs a stigma attached and without question, I know there is because I know a couple other docs, my daughter has told me that their kidsů you know, ôthis kid had a problemö and mother says ômaybe you should stay away from that person if theyĺre being depressed,ö or you know thereĺs a stigma attached with this.
Weĺre seeing a therapist.
Honestly, Iĺm not sure if weĺre seeing a PhD OR Masterĺs level therapist or not psychiatristsů correct?
Theyĺre not psychiatristsů I donĺt know... maybe they are, I never looked at their diploma.
So I think there is somewhat of a stigma attached with this to a lot of people.
Thatĺs what youĺre going to have to breakthrough; in that itĺs not that difficult, itĺs not that uncommon.
You donĺt need to be scared of it.
People donĺt like to say, ôOh yeah Iĺm in therapy,ö or my daughterĺs mentioned that, because the first thing that some of the kids think is, ôOoh, stay away from her, sheĺs got a problem.ö
Interviewer: So is that something youĺd want to be discussed in the videos?
Speaker: I think you do need to talk about that.
Thereĺs some potential risk there, so you need to basically limit who youĺre going to talk to because stuff gets around.
I was even told, ôdonĺt tell the rest of the family.
We donĺt want them thinking negatively of whatĺs going on.ö
Then again to me, it was like, ôWhat are we talking about here?ö This doesnĺt seem like that big of a deal, but yet it is.
If youĺre that person thatĺs in therapy youĺre thinking about what everyone else is thinking about your family.
You go on a trip, you see the other half of the family, and its like, ôwhatĺs going on with you?
I heard youĺre in therapy.ö
Negative connotations just spread.
People can say things.
They can be very hurtful, so there needs to be some thought given to that.
Interviewer: Should they ask about how it has worked for other kids?
Speaker: I would say so.
Having examples of kids who could, again in an educational setting, stand up and basically say, ôHereĺs the problems that I had.
I was afraid of doing this.
I couldnĺt do this, I couldnĺt do that, and fortunately I talked to my mother about itů blah blah blah blahů this is what happened, and I got into this program, and it helped me to deal with it.
I still have it to a certain extent, but I know how to deal with it, and now I can go around doing A, B, C, D, and E, and Iĺm okay.
My life has expanded greatly.ö
I think you want to show that kind of positive type situation.
Transcription paused by Aqueena @
Interviewer: Should they ask about how exposures work?
Speaker: Ask about how exposures worků okay since you canĺt answer a questionů.
Interviewer: Should they ask about the activities or the homeworkĺs that is usually given and the need to do it outside?
Should they ask about that?
Speaker: Ask the therapist?
Yesů