Speaker: … uh … so, um, in children’s or in general?
Interviewer 1: You can do in general and then for children.
Speaker: Uh … well, uh, I could only answer the part that I was, um ..., concerned about my son
Interviewer 1: Okay
Speaker: So I’m not sure if I’ll be able to give the general, you know, explanation
Interviewer 1: No, that’s fine
Speaker: So in my son’s case, it was like that, um, something was holding him to actually flourish and be able to ,uh … um , express his feelings, his thoughts, be able to defend himself.
So I wasn’t sure if it’s um self-confidence, is it uh ADD because my daughter has ADHD.
So in he had shown some anxiety, um, so that’s why we thought okay, we need to have him to be tested.
So, and then people tested and they said he has anxiety.
So we have gotten maybe, 2 or 4 sessions so it hasn’t been a long time so it’s been mostly to know, uh, put it on to know what he’s going through.
It hasn’t gotten a lot of, uh um … therapy.
Interview 1: Right.
Speaker: To help him.
So, I know um, how much of the therapy he has gotten, it’s been really helping him move forward because one of the things that, um, has changed since he started the therapy is that my daughter moved out.
So, that component, I think that helped to not to be stressed out.
So, um, he doesn’t actually do a couple of uh that the doctor asked him to do to help him with anxiety.
He says “no I don’t feel any anxiety” so I’m not sure that um … at this point, um, what he has gotten through the therapy has helped him
Interviewer 1: But you think the therapy will help him express him and make him bounded?
Speaker: Bounded to himself, yeah, and if he, if there are things that keep him, that hold him back, so he will be able to find a way to fight it instead of just ignoring it.
Interviewer 1: Okay.
Um, could you tell me what you know about CBT or how you would explain what CBT is?
Speaker: Unfortunately, I won’t be able to answer that.
Interviewer 1: Um, so when you first learned about the kind of therapy we do here, do you remember what kind of questions you had or what you would want to know about CBT?
Speaker: It never came up, actually, in the conversation, the cognitive behavioral therapy.
So as I said, we had some concern about his memory, about his forgetting stuff, being able.
So thinking that it was ADD, it actually to calm and have him tested.
So uh, it never crossed my mind that okay, this is something that I need to go uh study because it never uh … um, portrayed as cognitive difficulty.
So I said okay, he has anxiety, so that’s why it’s a little bit difficult for me to talk about it in a [
]
Interviewer 1: Um, So did you know anything about CBT from like the movies or the TV or anything?
Speaker: No.
Interviewer 1: No?
Um, and then are there any parts of the therapy so far that are confusing to you?
Speaker: No.
Interviewer 1: No?
Um, what would you want to tell someone who is about to start CBT?
Speaker: So um, I want to just make it clear.
So he’s getting the therapy for his anxiety.
So is this considered to be CBT?
Because maybe, as we had our session, the student came and talk about it and I thought it was about anxiety.
Interviewer 1: So, this like basically the CBT is to help him fight the anxiety.
Likes it’s the type of therapy that helps him combat the anxiety.