Interviewer: How well in terms of how the therapy combats the anxiety?
Are there things that need to be discussed about how that looks, what that looks like?
Interviewee: umm Maybe let them know that they may have to…and again I don’t know how far it is gonna go because for we just started week two, but they are gonna have to face some of their fears.
I mean I wouldn’t word it so that it scares them because it might turn some kids away, but umm be prepare to learn to stand up to, stand up to your fears more you know
Interviewee: And how it makes you stronger
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewee: and your fears weaker.
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: Yeah
Interviewee: That they are going to have to be brave, you know when they come here.
Interviewer: Should there be discussions about how it worked for other kids?
Interviewee: I think so.
Interviewer: Yeah, especially I think if you are discussing or having prior individuals who moved on through therapy kind of discussing it.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think so.
Interviewer: How much if we do take that route, how much of their story should be discussed cause’ I’m curious about a contrast between the story of the kids who have gone through vs the potential the viewer and what it might look like as you see, as you both have alluded to it very much depends on each kid, so?
Interviewee: What was the um…what was the nucleus of that question?
LAUGHS I’m sorry, say that again.
I lost you.
Interviewer: um its ok, I lost myself as well.
Um doing how its worked for other kids and how maybe having kids speaking about their own experiences vs having it more about the person viewing it and how they can relate…
Does that make sense?
Interviewee: I think, yeah.
I think um maybe…maybe that character and it could be more than one could be a real child’s story and then somehow in the end that child might say my name is blah bablah and not their real name obviously.
You know, my name is and I’m so happy that I was able to go through whatever because I have blah bablah and they helped, I don’t know.
That’s all I can really thing of maybe using an example of a real person um
Interviewee: Or even if just made up an example and just gave them a name.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: Even though everyone’s story and everyone’s experience is going to be a little different.
Just a couple of examples of you know
Interviewee: the common themes like the common um maybe something that you know a lot of kids are dealing with, OCD you know, I don’t know if its perfectionism or…
Interviewer: Contamination
Interviewee: Contamination, yeah exactly yeah.
Interviewee: Or you won’t stop until you get it just right.
Interviewee: Right… If you use some of those, a few of those really common themes you know and just maybe show one kid from each.
Interviewer: like show the variety and how we talked about how it presents itself in different ways.
Um so we talked about how you don’t think that its necessary to really talk about like what anxiety is, um do you think its worth talking about explicitly at least for the children how exposures really work and how they…?
Interviewee: I think very delicately.
Interview: Delicately.
Interviewee: Because you don’t want to scare them.
Interviewer: Could you elaborate on that on what you mean delicately, like to you what does that look like to you?
Interviewee: Well I’m just thinking about my son like I know the things that are some of his greatest fears/phobia type things coming into this and just with the mention of exposure therapy with him, he became very uncomfortable which is normal I guess you know, so um I don’t think you wanna make the anxiety greater.
Interviewee: You don’t want to scare them off.