Interviewer: Do you think there should be a central location like if should be centralized in one place or another because I’m curious in terms of the because we obviously have the doctor’s office when you come here for therapy, but as you alluded to throughout there are always challenges going on and these symptoms and their fear of all these different domains of um children’s lives?
Interviewee: I think it’s great that if you just show like a... like a shorten version of a day in their actual lives like what they are doing outside of the office because what you are essentially doing is here you are giving them skills on how to deal with their issues in their life, in their world on a day the day bases so if you just, it’s like a day in the life of you know a child.
You know, getting up, getting ready for school, getting to school, doing school.
I mean you don’t have to get all involved just a little clips you know.
Interviewee: So now I think of it like similar, but um where maybe being the office is kind of like the center or what would be in the middle of the video and so you show some examples of what life is like having some of these disorders
school or whatever problems and then you show the imagery of here and then you show more positive imagery, like first the beginning might be a little slightly negative you know that image of the brick against the brain you know and then here it’s a cotton ball or whatever happens some of those similar images turn positive after their experience here.
That’s kind of the flow I see, but I’m not in this field so I don’t know anything about it.
LAUGHS
Interviewer: Well of course, that’s obviously why we are asking…
Interviewee: I know nothing about it, but that’s just kind of if I were imaging it if I were to… That’s kind of how I would want to see it.
Interviewee: Or even running across the same thing but dealing with it differently you know like being able to…you know...if they run across an obstacle and then they come across that same obstacle but they’re able the…
Interviewee: Like show the obstacle in the beginning and show it after and then show…
Interviewee: how they change…yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah, and how to deal with that.
Interviewer: For things like that and I guess for general too and for talking about CBT and like how it works what would you guys say should be spoken about or talked about?
…… So for an example, should they find out about the CBT explanation of how anxiety works?
Interviewee: Should they be shown?
Interviewer: Or shouldn’t be
Interviewee: Oh into a
Interviewer: video
Interviewee: video
Interviewer: in one way shape or another.
You’re not...
You’re shaking your head.
Interviewee: I would think just mention it because if you are at the point where you are looking up coming to this program, you already know about anxiety, you already know about OCD, you already know about Tourette’s, you already know about all the other things that you’ve already been there.
You just want to know or are we going to deal with these diagnoses, are we…is this going to be covered under what you are doing.
I personally wouldn’t think you need to go into any great explanation
Interviewer: about how
Interviewee: of any of these diagnoses.
Interviewee: That may take away from or
Interviewee: Yeah cause’ I think, I would imagine the point they are saying is ok you are going to need to go here, you already know what you are dealing with at that point, it is not brand new you know.