Interviewer: Going briefly back to other people, I know that you said you know other people that have gone through CBT. Do you know if their experience was a positive one? Negative?
Speaker: I know one person who tried it, and he didn’t really give it enough time. It was a relative, and it was pretty exciting when I heard about it, but it was something that he didn’t try for very long. These things take time. 
Interviewer: Yeah that’s kind of going with what you said earlier, right? It’s not necessarily a quick fix. It’s going to take some time. 
Speaker: Yeah. Probably not going in once and done kind of a thing. 
Interviewer: Right, definitely. Could you tell me a little bit about the... you touched on this a little briefly… about challenging negative thoughts… what are some other areas that CBT targets? What skills do you develop from it?
Speaker: Not just challenging negative thoughts, but also, I think was part of it, recognizing maybe when you are more, I think anxiety… when you are feeling moments of anxiety, if you can recognize that, then you can draw from things you learned in CBT to help you manage it better. 
Interviewer: So a little bit like a toolkit. 
Speaker: Yeah, yeah. Or almost like exercising a little bit, build up your strength. 
Interviewer: Right. What was the role of feelings in CBT, would you say?
Speaker: Feelings, emotions… I don’t know… I’m not sure about that. 
Interviewer: How about like behaviors or actions?
Speaker: Behaviors is probably more like to, you react- you behave in a certain way. Maybe you’re in a crowd and you don’t want to participate or whatever the situation is, maybe in that type of therapy you might learn to recognize that those situations are not… recognize what’s happening in the situation and realize it’s something you can improve or change. 
TRANSCRIPTION PAUSED 
Interviewer: Cool. Awesome. So I’m just going to turn to more of the video side of things. So thinking about these videos there’s kind of a twofold thing, where on one hand they want to make videos for kids, but we’re also contemplating the use of creating videos for parents. So when you answer these questions, feel free to think about both sides of things, like what you think would be useful. So, first in terms of the who: if we’re making videos like this, who do you think should be starring in these videos? 
Speaker: Who would be starring in the videos… let’s see… I see a lot of those animals here. I never thought about that. We tend to see things like putting famous people on lately and doing little video bits that you see on TV for mental health… spokespersons. Sometimes I think that helps because it helps bring those topics out and make them seem a little more normal. I’ve also seen videos where they use maybe people who had gone through the therapy, and as a result of that had improved. Those were also good so they can explain how it helped them. I don’t know if you’re thinking about live action videos…
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah! It’s something we’ll get to.
Speaker: Yeah or animation or cartoons is what we started on here, and so maybe different as an adult, I’d probably relate to the non-cartoons better, but I’d think children could relate to better to something like a cartoon. 
Interviewer: Looking at the characters, so what would you say would be important for the parent? [11:42]____ 
Speaker: From a parent, we’re looking for answers. We’re looking for ways to help our children. And from a parent’s perspective, a video, they might relate more to adult type characters, and maybe they’ll relate to how they’ll help their family or help them.