Interviewee: Uh, what would this represent?
Interviewer: I think that these are potential characters in this style.
This wouldn’t be the character this would just be the style of animation.
So this is the last one… So again I just want to hear if there is any style here that you guys like or don’t like.
Interviewee: Can I see the first one again?
Interviewer: Of course.
So you’ve got the comic art with live action, the vector art, and then the line art, which is live action with art and stuff sort of drawn around it.
So, any elements you feel like you like or don’t like, style you like or don’t like.
Any suggestions about it in general.
Interviewee: I like the comic book, the third one, the comic book blended.
Interviewer: The comic art blended.
Interviewee: With, if you’re going with a certain target based off age, because Marvel the characters and stuff that’s out and about, you will hit kids who won’t care, won’t think about, won’t be interested, “that’s not going to help me” that kind of thing, that you may not get because that is a wide category kind of the preteen age that’ll be like you know “it’s not cool to have therapy” kind of thing, but this might be like “hey that’s kind of cool”.
I think you might reach some of those boys or some characters that are like
Interviewer: like preteen age.
Interviewee: I think that would be good for that/
Interviewer: And again anything that you like or don’t like in general.
Interviewee: The uh I like this expect for I can see it carry toward boy rather than the boys and I would be concerned.
If it this type of comic it could be a little dark.
And I would be concerned with that.
The second one um
Interviewer: The vector art
Interviewee: yeah Um, these almost look to like childish
Interviewee: Right
Interviewee: You have something that’s interacting like this that you would have
Interviewer: So like live action with characters, as well.
Interviewee: live action with characters would be, I think, a little bit more suitable on it.
Interviewee: Think that would probably go more with the general if you’re getting a big age gap, I think that one would hit both sides.
For girls and boys.
Interviewee: And with all three, I don’t know what yawl’s target age wise is.
I mean, I would think with the elementary age kids that this would be; where you’re getting both.
And again I; there was other comic where I thought were more female friendly and not dark-looking.
And it might be; the first one I thought, I personally…
Interviewer: The line art
Interviewee: Unless, I personally think it’s distracting.
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t think it works with what the message would be about.
Interviewee: Yeah I’m having a little trouble with that one.
There could be benefits for, in my view, the latter two.
But I like the ones where there’s maybe a child in cartoons interacting with each other.
Or where you would have a combination of those two.
Or if there was something on the third one that could appeal to a wide enough audience
Interviewee: Not being a super character like a super hero character kind of thing, be more like a different a pet.
Interviewee: Because, you know, my daughter is and her friends and stuff are still into dolls and they’re not, they don’t follow any of the super heroes and stuff but my son on the other hand doesn’t want anything to do with dolls.
Interviewee: It is that way because I have a 10 year old son who’s like all into that and my 12 year old daughter is like “eh” you know, still dolls and stuff and what not.
And you have to be, to make a video, you kind of have to be somewhere in the middle or you have a set base of boy girl kind of things, where kind of just do both and gear it toward the patient