Speaker: Well one I just wished I would have realized was I remember when we were talking about which kind of path to take I really had no idea and not that-maybe there is not guarantee but like how quickly it could be if it was intensive because looking back, I mean, it took us many months to get through something that was affecting her on a daily basis.
So looking back, it may have been worth to just take a week off of school and just focus on this and then working back to catch up to get through school.
And/or it worked out with the Fear Facers, it was a camp that was available also during a break so, you know, if you can’t- if it wouldn’t work in a schedule just knowing that okay maybe it doesn’t have to be right now but… maybe into the future a little bit we could do these three days right here or, you know, like that kind of thing.
It didn’t even have- it didn’t occur to me we could just sort of protect-protect a time to make this happen.
But that’s in hindsight because I’m probably at the time would have been like this is not going to be that effective.
Not that it wouldn’t be that effective but-
Interviewer: How quick necessarily.
Speaker: Yeah.
Having gone through it, I’m like wow!
Every single time, even with one session within 48 hours I can see a daily consistent change.
But she is also a very hard worker.
She wants it for herself, it’s not like I’m trying to nag.
I don’t know if you have people who aren’t as motivated.
You know, but for her- for us and for her, it was great sessions, great tools that, you know, she has even been able to adapt and apply even in other situations that she recognizes the feelings or the whatever.
She’s like oh!
You know, I don’t know she uses the tools she’s had.
Also I think that the camps are kind of beneficial just knowing that you’re not- that it’s more common than you realize that people have things that they’re working on that affect them.
Interviewer: So… maybe that might be helpful if people knew that or patients knew that coming in?
Speaker: Yeah.
Yeah.
Interviewer: That people also have these similar issues.
Speaker: And people they can probably relate to on many levels.
Not just, you know, not like oh this is another person that has something that would benefit from CBT but oh yeah they’re also, whatever, my age or they have full, whatever not just.
Never mind I don’t know what I’m trying to say.
Interviewer: You’re fine, you’re fine.
Just kind of thinking about that experience.
I know we’re kind of asking a lot of questions that are similar-ish so if this the same as another question and you have the same answer that’s fine.
But just thinking about those experiences, were there any parts of therapy that were really confusing when you started?
Or actually at any point?
Speaker: No.
I mean I feel like it’s been very self-explanatory.
Interviewer: Okay.
Speaker: To the point.
It’s always actionable.
Whatever they’re doing is like right away… and always reflective.
It’s always based on what her comfort is so I think it gives her a sense of that it’s not just your plan that I’m having to follow but we make this plan together and at any time if I change my mind...
It’s really still your own plan, you just have somebody to kind of guide you through it.
Interviewer: So it’s collaborative.