Interviewer: How would you feel about there being doctors, for instance?
Speaker: Doctors… I don’t know… that’s a good question on that. I’m used to seeing on TV… you know, those TV doctors that are usually not real, so I’m not sure if I’d relate well to that or not. I would probably relate more if it was like a parent or somebody from that level, someone more relatable.
Interviewer: That makes sense. So transitioning a little bit to the setting, what would be some good settings that we could have the video in?
Speaker: I guess maybe more of a reenactment. Maybe you might start with a scene where somebody is encountering some kind of mental health challenge, and maybe that’s the starting point so you can identify what type of challenges people would have and then transition into entering therapy. I don’t know how long this video is going to be… transitioning into what kind of benefits you can bring through therapy or CBT and then finally having the final result of the miraculous cure- something to see the benefit out of it. 
Interviewer: Sounds like showing the whole process- the problem to how it gets resolved.
Speaker: Right. So maybe in the beginning you might relate to the person you’re watching because you’re saying, “Okay I can relate to that scenario.” Then maybe understand a little bit about how the process helped. You probably want to do this in like 30 seconds, right? 
Interviewer: That, we’re still deciding. 
Speaker: Our attention span probably isn’t that long.
Interviewer: Well I guess from your perspective, how long do you think a video like this would be, like at what point are you saying, “This is too long.”
Speaker: I was thinking about that. It’s almost like you’d want a short part of it to get people’s attention then maybe break off into a more detailed discussion. Could almost see that, like there’s some kind of carton video then it breaks off into the doctor coming in talking a little bit about what is happening, what the benefits would be, then maybe back into a video… might help to at least get somebody’s attention in the beginning. 
Interviewer: So multi-segmented, perhaps? Help them pay attention. 
Speaker: Yeah, yeah. 
Interviewer: Just in terms of specific locations, would you think that showing things at home would be relevant or important?
Speaker: Yeah there’s a lot of possible scenarios for kids. There’s school where you’re maybe having peer pressures that you encounter, and of course home life is always a challenge for us all, isn’t it? So, because there’s so many things you could treat with CBT, I’m not quite sure… it’d be hard to pick one.
Interviewer: What about like the therapist’s office?
Speaker: Therapist’s office… probably could, just to get people… you know, when I grew up, when I was a kid someone going to the therapist’s office was kind of stigmatizing. At least from my perspective, I’m past that, but maybe not everybody is. 
Interviewer: How would you address the issue of stigma, especially for parents who are from an era where, as you said, it was more stigmatized?
Speaker: People like my age, I’m talking to my parents, that age particularly, their response now is, “We wish we knew those things back then.” Their main response is, “We didn’t even know there was options out there for improving mental health.”  I think it’s important if you’re looking at it as being something more stigmatizing now or you don’t want your neighbors to know that you’re going, years later it’s definitely something you’d look back on and say, “I wish I had taken those steps at that time.”
Interviewer: So sounds like growing up [16:52] ___ the opportunity is valuable. 
Speaker: Right. So you may not recognize it on the front end, but you will definitely see it on the back end.