Speaker: I think in most people’s case when it comes to therapy, you kind of like to have an idea how long something will take. That was the one thing I never thought about asking because you want to follow it through as much as you’re able to make sure your kid, or daughter, or whoever gets the treatment that they need. So there was never really any kind of a period that was set down. I mean unlike in other therapy sessions, like you go to a chiropractor and your insurance company may allow you to do 25, 30 visits. I have no idea what we’re able to get, you know, if there’s a limit on that. I would like to think I’ve got a pretty good insurance package with my wife ___ UF, but that was one thing I think some parents may like to know. You don’t know what this is going to cost, how long it’s going to take. Then again, obviously it depends on the subject. Whether or not the therapy is working on the person.
Interviewer: Are there any other questions that you would want to know before we started the CBT?
Speaker: It may be helpful to kind of give people an idea of what is the therapy, because that was never really explained. It was like we go, we sit down in a room, we start asking questions, “who are you? What do you do? What’s going on with you?” and you never really find out “here’s how we’re going to treat you.” Now maybe that’s something that just happens between the parent and the therapist, so there was never really any discussion of that. Ultimately we did get to “okay there’s going to be some things that we will go over and over, then here’s some tricks to learn how to trick yourself basically into believing nothing’s really wrong.” So that might have been very useful.
Interviewer: What was your involvement in CBT? What would be useful for other parents to know if it’s not different from what you’ve already shared?
Speaker: My involvement in CBT primarily was ensuring that to a certain extent, and this was minimized, really, in my case, that I tried to get my daughter to do certain activities so that we could have this repetitive testing, if you will, going on. Because you just can’t walk into the session and expect your therapist to give a 45 minute to an hour “here’s what’s going to happen,” the kid leaves and the kid doesn’t do anything. If you can’t find a way to get your child to actually continue to challenge themselves, then they’re really not going to improve all that much. So, you’ve really got to, with the approval of the therapist, find a way to challenge your kid, push them on multiple occasions. We didn’t do it a lot, we could’ve pushed a lot more, but I was told, “You don’t want to do it too much, within limits.” I would bring up ideas. I would get an okay, “yeah that sounds like a good idea, do that.”
Interviewer: Have you ever read or heard about any scientific research about CBT? Is it something we should talk about in the videos?
Speaker: I did not at all. I mean in all honesty I did not see coming here as being in any way, shape, or form threatening, although as I mentioned before, any time you talk about therapy, I could see from the perspective [17:56] ____ in the future, that in the case of a parent, yeah there’s a little bit of stigma. “Why is my kid having to go to therapy? What did I do wrong?” That kind of a situation going on in my head. And we, my wife and I, did have some discussions on that. As it turns out, my mother in law is also a therapist in this area, so we got her feedback on some things. I don’t always agree with her.