Interviewer: No, that’s good to know. When you first learned about the kind of therapy that we do here, do you remember what questions you had? What did you know about CBT prior to the sessions here?
Speaker: I really didn’t know a lot about, again, the cognitive CBD… as far as what you did hear, my wife is a physician. I never had any fear about bringing my daughter here, although I will say that not really knowing initially what we were talking about, I think there is this stigma of, “Okay your daughter is going to go to therapy.” And right away, you think psychiatry, and you think drugs and you think WACKY PEOPLE. And you’re like, I grew up in a situation where I had a couple brothers who had comparable type issues to what my daughter’s experiencing, never thought a thing about it, and we basically just toughed right through it. You know, unless I think the child is speaking out or you have an adult who’s really perceptive to these kinds of things; my wife’s a physician, she may have noticed some things, but again it was my daughter who was willing to open up, whereas with a boy, they may not perceive that. 
Interviewer: So what kind of questions did you have then when you were coming in, if you could remember?
Speaker: I really did not ask a lot of questions, and I was the one that brought her here. Matter of fact, out of the, I don’t know how many times we’ve been here, 10, 15, 20 times, my wife has only been here one time. Again, I wasn’t too worried about the therapy because I saw it strictly as being a sitting down and talking, and after the very first session I kind of got an idea of what was going to be transpiring in terms of okay, everything we’re trying to do is repetitive type situations with her anxiety disorder. If we’re doing this over and over then you get more used to it then you don’t get the anxiety of doing it, and you start to realize… of course she got taught techniques in dealing with anxiety, that’s it’s not as big an issue that you’re making it up to be internally.
Interviewer: How much did you know about CBT from movies, the TV, the internet, or other people? Did any or all of it match your experiences?
Speaker: Well I will say this, I don’t think anyone phrases what I have seen as CBT. I don’t hear them talking about it on TV. When you watch a movie, you don’t hear them talking about CBT. In other words, it is a phrase that people are not, I believe, familiar with. And as a result, you say CBD it sounds like a lot of other, you know, abbreviations. I don’t know if saying CBD is another way of saying therapy, maybe you just say therapy, or you know, coming up with a gentler, easier, kinder way to make people feel comfortable about what the subject matter is. Because to me, CBT didn’t mean anything
Interviewer: Thinking about your experience, were there any parts of the therapy that were confusing?
Speaker: No.
Interviewer: What would you want to tell someone who was about to start CBT?
Speaker: I’m saying CBD not CBT.
Interviewer: CBT: cognitive behavioral therapy. I know we’ve said it several times.
Speaker: I was also in a medical background for a while. CBD meant something else different. 
Interviewer: Okay, okay.
7:38: Speaker: I’m sorry, say the question again.