Speaker: I think it would be helpful, although, well first of all, I’ve read a lot about it even before it was needed and um but you know, it would be helpful for parents if they have an anxiety over this then they could go somewhere, whether it’s a website or a hand out or whatever you want to do.
Like a reading list or you know recommended readings you know to help direct them, so you know not wondering aimlessly through the internet and running across helpful or unhelpful information.
You know it would be better, I would think, that if you all as a group felt that there was articles or other level of sophistication those articles are that a parent could go, if they wanted to, to read more and stuff.
Interviewer: Um, did you guys know about someone else’s experience with CBT?
Um and was it positive or negative and overall what would be useful for others to know?
We kind of touched on it a little bit already.
Speaker: For us, um, personal experience our self for us as parents to our children so it was easier for us to go jump into this CBT because it’s just a way of getting tools and whatnot, for the life to com.
And I think, uh, the CBT itself is a process that is needed and adults need to know about it enough so they have that option to give it to their children; give that positive hope.
Speaker: I had uh, where people have gone through it but not in depth of what they had done.
I did not hear anything negative about it so I just assumed it was positive.
Interviewer: Ok, um so like I was saying, we want to develop a few videos about CBT so now I’m going to ask a few questions more about the videos.
Um, so first we’ll need to decide who will be in the video, so any ideas of characters we should include?
Not specific characters but like, you know, humans, animals.
Like broadly speaking.
Speaker: Well, I think that um you get two target audiences here, the adults and the parents.
I think it’s easier to do toward the children because if you do it towards the children the parents will, the parents will watch kids’ stuff more than kids will watch parents stuff.
And so I think having a video toward your child, that’s going to inform the parents also.
And if you’re dealing with children who I think maybe who are pre-puberty, you know having uh, nonhumans sometimes they can relate better than somebody they’re actually seeing and you know?
Um… Again I think that it’s easier to do something toward a younger audience and anybody older is going to understand it versus you know if somebody’s younger they might not understand if you do it toward a target audience that’s older.
Speaker: I agree I would do, it, something that might catch younger kids to even older ones like almost like an anime or the characters of people, real people but in like a cartoon kind of fashion so that it’s engaging enough that you’ll get different areas of groups from young kids to teens and whatnot.
They’ll watch it and a parent like you said, will always watch what they’re kids are doing.
I would keep it more humanlike versus animal-like because it’s more, you’re relating to a human character versus like “the bear” or you know “the tree” or something that’s inanimate or something that’s living but not humanlike, I think might not come across for the kids to go “oh that character is just like me”.
So if it’s more human related I feel like it’s more like oh that little girl is like me, you know, kind of thing.
You know that’s something I think that’s like
.