Interviewer: Ok so, thanks with um meeting me, for meeting with me today.
Um, I working with a group of clinical psychologists and psychiatrists on a project about cognitive behavioral therapy which is the kind of therapy that your child or children um have been, uh receiving at this clinic.
For this project we want to develop uh few short educational videos to describe what cognitive therapy… cognitive behavioral therapy is for children and their parents uhh so we want to get your information on this topic.
Um cognitive behavioral therapy is a mouthful so, throughout this interview I will be calling it CBT, for short.
So, to start um could you guys tell me what comes to your mind when you first think about CBT.
Speaker: Challenges LAUGHS
Interviewer: Challenges
Speaker: Challenges, yeah
Interviewer: Could you elaborate on that.
Speaker: Um, challenging… doing things that you know um, challenging your child to do things that they feel uncomfortable doing so that they become more comfortable with um…different things like um touching gross things or… whatever.
Speaker: Yeah I, I think about um very similarly the challenges that the child and the parent will face and the child being faced with something that’s gonna change the way they think.
You know
Interviewer: Right
Speaker: And that may… or may not always work just because someone gets the CBT therapy it doesn’t mean everything is going to be fine afterwards, you know.
It’s it’s changing the structure of the thought process and that’s always kind of a grey area.
Interviewer: hmmm, So that kind of goes into my next question of like how would you explain what CBT is, like the mechanisms, how does it work?
From your perspectives.
Speaker: Well  ___ for us it’s been um… more of like there’s a problem and then an idea is presented um… as a solution but in order to, the way its presented, in order to really receive that idea as a change the patient, the child has to be willing to accept the fact, like I was saying, that they are going to change um and kind of come up against their own selves in a way.
So it’s almost like they have to decompartmentalize and detach themselves from whatever the problem is and then learn to face it and hopefully overtake it but that’s um that’s very difficult yeah, hard thing to do so and you hope for a good outcome in the end.
Interviewer: Right
Speaker: I agree but I’ve also… I’m coming to realize know to think that maybe it’s not just a therapy, it’s uh it’s a lifestyle change, you know that it is something like, that we will always be doing you know, even throughout life I’m sure he is going um run across obstacles and you know sometimes things are gonna become more challenging throughout life and um you know, I just think it’s… it’s a life style change, and kind of becoming aware of how you perceive obstacle, I guess.
Interviewer: So, it sounds like the two of you are really emphasizing the change component
Speaker: Yeah
Speaker: mmmh
Speaker: Yeah.
And I’m a little bit new to it.
I haven’t, we haven’t been through a whole lot yet, but just of what we have, yeah that’s something that cause I think that when your child is giving a diagnosis that’s it’s gonna be a lifelong diagnosis and the therapy it’s not like you go for a few weeks and it’s done.
Speaker: and it’s over and it’s cured.
I don’t think that, I think it gets better for sure, it becomes manageable and then I think... I’m sure like I said they go through life they might have flare ups or whatever and that they will hopefully learn the skills to be able to...
Speaker: Because life is crazy.
Speaker: deal with these things.
Yeah
Speaker: You don’t know what s gonna come each day each hour…
Speaker: Right
Speaker: and they have to be, right, prepared.