Interviewee: Um if they are working, um…you know if you are talking about the adults being the patients um and not just the parents um… is that part of the scope or is it?
Interviewer: It’s more so the perspective of the child as the patient but the parents are still involved.
Interviewee: Ok… so um you know if they have a lovey animal, you know a little lovey animal or a stuff animal that they bring with them you know, if it’s not too corny you can ask how the lovey is doing or the stuff animal so.
Interviewer: Yeah, and should they ask about how it worked for other kids?
Interviewee: How who should ask?
Interviewer: Like should that a be like a question between maybe characters or should it be in the form of kind of a little snippet of an interview of kids explaining how its worked for them.
Interviewee: I’m not completely sure they know what method is being used on them and I’m not quite sure it’s necessary that they know.
They just need something that works and helps them to uh navigate life better.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Do you think that there should be kids saying those things like its helped them, the feel better, and things of that sort?
Interviewee: Yeah
Interviewer: What about how exposures work?
Interviewee: Um I don’t think my daughter has done that.
I don’t know… I don’t know how to answer that one.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: I guess exposure to me in my situation means that uh they… like my counselor is uh just incredibly good.
If there is a day like I don’t feel like talking, she draws me out easily and she knows how to get me to talk.
So for exposures she has me think of a memory and she has me put my… what’s the word, not my real finger, my um… psychological finger.
I don’t know how to say that.
So that to me the exposure is bringing old moods out into the open.
Interviewer: Yeah and for some other kids the disorder may be putting them in a situation where they must face their fears or something that’s bothering them so do you think that would be beneficial to show in the video?