Interviewer: So, maybe some degree of ownership of animals helps to kind of mitigate that distress that they experience and also helps--go ahead.
Interviewee: We don't have data to necessarily support that, it makes sense but if often puts us into conflict with sometimes the animal advocates say, "this person did horrible things to animals and they should never be allowed to have any animals again."
We try to be very realistic, and these are not bad people, these are people who for a wide variety of reasons have done things that have harmed animals and the tactic--and I sent you the paper I think--the approaches that seem to work are either relapse prevention approach, or harm minimization.
You know, recognize they're gonna want animals, they need animals as part of their definition of self and our role as interveners is to minimize the harm that can be done, and that means monitoring the situation, helping providing a safety net for them and their animals if they need social services, if they need mental health counseling, if they need financial assistance.
What effective hoarding task forces try to do is meet some of those needs while monitoring the situation to focus on relapse prevention.
Interviewer: How much do individuals with animal hoarding actually get psychological counseling or get treatment in the courts?
Because I know they are very resistant to the idea that they have a problem, and then they go through the court system and they're very defensive and resistant to the idea that they have a problem, and they don't want their animals taken away.
Is there a kind of, are there animal hoarders who have treatment?
Or have you seen them in treatment?
Interviewee: A few, and it's still rare that you get compliance and part of the problem too is that if the situation is really quite severe, so they've been unable to provide for the animal's medical needs and spay/neuter needs and proper diet and so on, often they're on public assistance or medicare or whatever and often there are limits to what public systems will provide in terms of psychological assessment, maybe 8-12 visits, well that's not enough.
LAUGHS You know, life-long monitoring probably, so in my experience, the only...I've had a few cases where wealthier clients who have the resources have basically agreed to monitoring, counseling, participation at the condition of avoiding any kind of jail time or whatever.
And they've often been among the less severely debilitated-type cases, but also they have the resources.
Like I have one woman who had 109 Lhasa Apso dogs and they were seized.
She got them back when she was able to actually build a facility for them that was nicer than the local animal shelter and hire caretakers.
She still is a hoarder psychologically, she still depends on these animals as part of her definition of self, but it's not an animal hoarding case and she's not engaged in any kind of criminal behavior, but she's not cured.