Interviewer: So perhaps the reason we could speculate--and cut me off if you think that this is wrong--but we could speculate that maybe part of the reason that the rate of recidivism tends to be so high with animal hoarding and insight tends to be so low, while it is in object hoarding I think it's uniquely low in animal hoarding, could perhaps be because it requires so much more investment in terms of keeping the animals, so much more investment in the beliefs about the animals and also the animals kind of give back more than objects.
Interviewee: Yeah the animals give back more and in terms of the emotional investment, again I wasn't necessarily trained or all that familiar with self-psychology, I've talked to a number of people that that's their main focus, but I certainly see it as--and when we teach responders in how to deal with animal hoarders, we have to respect the fact that this is the core of their being.
This is how they define themselves, they spend all of their time, most of their money, and all of their psychological investment in their own self-worth and their own image of themselves in their perception that they are helping animals, even if it's a delusion that they are helping animals.
So that's the thing that makes it so potent, if they have everything invested in this relationship and if you take their animals away from them I think it's worse than going into an object hoarder's home and cleaning it up.
That's obviously still going to be disturbing to them, but for a lot of the animals, you take all their animals away and you're almost literally ripping their heart out and that becomes a very hot topic that we still debate among people responding to animal hoarding situations, is it's very common in animal cruelty cases that if there is a conviction or proof of animal cruelty, you issue a no-contact order, you can't have any more animals, and we debated back and forth whether that is necessary in responding to hoarding situations.
Do you let them keep some?
How many?
And so on.
As with alcohol treatment, you have those that basically say, "You can't be a social drinker if you're an alcoholic, you have to go to complete abstinence" versus those who say "you can learn to be a social drinker."
My own view, what I personally recommend and seems to work is for a variety of reasons I like to recommend that convicted animal hoarders be allowed to keep a small number of animals, usually no more than five, probably maybe three for a couple of reasons.
Number one, judges don't like taking people's stuff away from them, so they are very sympathetic and I've been lectured by judges for being too mean to sweet old ladies if we take their animals away or any of their animals away.
So that makes the court proceed a little easier, it also seems to reduce the stresses of separation anxiety pulling animals away, but also tactically it now gives us reason to require random access to their environment.
So, you have to agree as part of your condition to probation to unannounced reasonable home visits to make sure you only have those three dogs.
And basically if whoever is monitoring the situation comes back and sees that you now have seven dogs, that's contempt of court, you could go to jail.
So, my own practical tactical belief is it is appropriate to allow keeping some stuff, just like you wouldn't send an object hoarder into an empty home.