Interviewer: Well it sounds like maybe it's moving in the same direction as object hoarding disorder, maybe like five or ten years ago where it's starting to be moved form this kind of like marginalized, criminalized behavior-oriented, punishment-oriented thinking towards more mental illness treatment-oriented thinking and so perhaps there will be more.
Interviewee: As a big difference though in object hoarding, let's say you have really messy hoarding situations, at worst that's usually going to be a civil intervention, if law gets involved it's going to be violations or code violations or so-on, it's not a criminal case; whereas with animal hoarding, if animals are dying that's criminal and that's the big difference.
Another major difference between object hoarding and animal hoarding, I can't think off the top of my head of anybody that's been charged criminally for object hoarding alone.
And that was one of our other discussions today is what we're also trying to do is resolve some of the animal hoarding problems civilly rather than criminally, or both.
So usually, let's say we have an animal hoarding situation, what we try to do is have essentially a seizure hearing where the animals are removed, or most of the animals are removed in a civil proceeding.
We're not gonna charge you with animal cruelty, but we are going to essentially try to have you declared let's say an unfit owner, I know Florida law has knocked it on their stature, things like that but we're not filing criminal charges.
I've got interesting stuff, I think it was in the paper I sent, the advice from the Texas district attorney's association, they basically recommend responding to hoarding situations by combining civil and criminal prosecutions.
Basically, you know, you seize the animals civilly, and then if there are animal deaths or whatever, it's necessary to proceed criminally.
And more and more I think what we're gonna try to do is to resolve these as much as possible civilly, and frankly the main motivation for pursuing criminal charges is not incarceration, but to get court-mandated treatment, even though we realize #1 there's no well-identified effective treatment, and #2 there's very low compliance.
But also what we try to do is if there are criminal proceedings, you try to get a long period of probation, which then lets you monitor the situation and gives you a little bit of a stick.
You know, if you do go beyond your three permitted animals or whatever, it's a violation of your probation and there could otherwise be consequences.