Interviewer: And what's your opinion as a clinician about that idea?
Do you think that that's fair?
Interviewee: I think it shows great insight, it shows a much higher level of understanding I think of the thought processes of a hoarder than I normally see from clinicians who don't really recognize what's going on.
I'd like to get the reference on those four sources because that's something I'd like to make reference to, I can certainly relate to all of them, except indifference.
I don't think that in many of the animal cases that they don't care, and of course what we frequently hear in the media is, "this is someone who cares too much about animals," or "they love animals too much."
Indifference has never been sited as a factor in animal hoarding for the conditions of it developing, but the others are.
You mentioned a lack of the actual perception, again in animal hoarding situations the environmental impact is much greater than in object hoarding because you do have the animals that pee and poop and die and that's obviously one of the overwhelming characteristics of the animal hoarding cases, is the environment and often very dangerous ammonia levels and things like that.
So the question often is can't they smell the urine or feces or can't they see dead animals on the kitchen table and that's one of the things that's been very interesting to us, because in some level you could argue that they don't, or they don't appear to, or they don't acknowledge the existence of that sensory information.
Interviewer: And I guess with insight there's kind of two problems with insight.
One is insight into the actual physical situation and how bad it is, and the other is insight into the way that it could be interfering with one's life and kind of separating those out.
Interviewee: That's absolutely right, and usually one of the things we see in probably I think in about 25% of the animal hoarding cases is we do have an impact on others in their care, either dependent adults or children.
It's not unusual to have hoarding situations where you'll have let's say an older hoarder in his or her 50s or 70s who's caring for a parent in their 80s or 90s, and sometimes we do see social services getting involved in even charges or in some cases child abuse or neglect or endangerment chargers when there are children in their care.
So, not only are we not cognizant of the impact of the hoarding on themselves, but what often brings them into conflict with the legal system is the impact of that on others that are in their care or sharing their space with them.