Interviewer: And I guess in cases of animal hoarding, I remember you talking about in our last conversation that sometimes people will actually have social networks or people who are kind of supporting them in their behavior, and how does that work with this kind of delusional almost aspect of...does it become a shared delusion?
Interviewee: Almost a shared delusion, like we've had--in the case of our rescue hoarders, which are our most common large-scale hoarding situations, so people who at least present themselves or describe themselves as rescuers and sometimes actually formerly have a non-profit status and claim to be a rescue organization, and when they do come in conflict with the law or are charged with animal cruelty, many of the enablers or people who have assisted them will show up at their hearings and their trials and will also have the same level of denial.
I've had situations where we will have evidence photographs of emaciated or debilitated animals, particularly in the cats we get very severe upper respiratory infections that sometimes even cause rupturing of eyeballs and things like that, and we will have evidence photos or veterinary reports, and their supporters, enablers, defenders will basically accuse us of doctoring those photos and they basically say it's fake news!
LAUGHS So, to that extent it becomes a shared delusion.
Interviewer: And why do you think that happens?
Do you have any knowledge of how that gets built?
Interviewee: Well usually these are fellow hoarders.
It's interesting that they show up for each other's trials or hearings or whatever, but they don't necessarily present them with aid.
They don't say, "Let me take some of these animals off of their hands, let me help you" or "let me get you some resources," they are just reinforcing the notion that they're keeping all these animals under whatever condition is an act of rescue or love or whatever.
So, they are enablers but they're not helpers, they're not...they're making the situation, either perpetuating it or even exasturbating it.
I haven't seen too many cases, although it's there in the literature and I've talked to other people, sometimes the hoarders are actually competing with each other.
They're like, you know, literally competing for animals that they find and occasionally even stealing from each other.
Interviewer: So it almost appears to be a community in some cases?
Interviewee: Well, and that's something that's also I think unique to animal hoarders.
Part of their delusion is they feel--I guess I would consider it delusional thinking...but they are the only ones that can provide for these animals, they know best.
So, there's a level of narcissism and paranoia in there as well.
My favorite line from a hoarder when asked why she had these dogs, many of them were in poor condition and she could reduce her population by offering some up for adoption and she was allegedly a rescue group and the best line I've ever heard was, "I wouldn't give one of my dogs to Jesus Christ if he walked in the door."
So nobody is good enough, nobody meets their standard of care, they believe they are absolutely the best person.
They usually have no respect for veterinarians, they think veterinarians don't know what they're doing, they certainly have no respect for animal rescue groups, so that really pathological narcissism is quite often in some of the animal hoarders as well.