Rebecca: So where is animal hoarding in relation to other disorders? So there's high comorbidity of depression or with object hoarding often.
Interviewee: Right, right, we certainly do see a number of different potential co-morbidities. Initially we used to talk about animal addicts, we used to view it as a form of addictive behavior, and again quite a few of our hoarders also do seem to have substance abuse problems or quite a few in my experience have been children of substance abusers, particularly daughters of alcoholics, it seems to not be an uncommon scenario. So there are those problems, there is depression, there have seen some with schizophrenia, some seem to perhaps be borderline personality. So there are a lot of potential co-occurring things that again might be part of the whole process of the onset of hoarding might be related to a lot of other attachment disorders. Our current thinking seems to be more along the line of attachment disorders rather than obsessive-compulsive disorder partly because, and I don't have a lot of experience working with obsessive-compulsive disorders but, one of the main differences I know in the literature and in my experience is the level of insight that somebody who is involved in engaging with, let's say repetitive behaviors and #1 knows that that is unusual and might even be somewhat disturbed by that. The hoarders I meet are again extremely defensive and I wouldn't say enjoy their hoarding, but one of the lines we hear quite often is without the animals in their care they will die. There is a lot of suicidal ideation and we used to be kind of inclined to dismiss that as a strange abnormal attachment they had, but we have had a couple of instances of hoarders who have committed suicide, which is why when we do a rescue operation, and particularly on a rescue hoarder that might have a large number of animals, we always bring along a mental health team as well and even ambulances in some cases. And to the first part of the--so, the main distinguishing characteristics, it varies in the different states what percentage of animal hoarders are also object hoarders but it's pretty high. In my experience most of them at least have some degree of other object hoarding, and sometimes it is extensive. Sometimes we have object hoarding situations where the large number of animals present are not necessarily part of the original intent, but you have tons of news papers and news papers attract rodents and rodents attract cats, and you wind up with a large number of cats even though you're not a cat hoarder. But certainly in many of the animal hoarding situations that animal care and control or the main law enforcement go in on, you are maneuvering your way through your lab of newspapers and trash and all kinds of stuff. So, there is certainly a lot of overlap there, there are a couple of things that I think potentially make animal hoarding different. There's a level of viewing objects that you hoard with human characteristics or again you hear people saying, "If I throw this out it's like killing it." Even though it's a record, or a bottle or a magazine.