Rebecca: Can you ever think of a case of an animal hoarder who gained a degree of insight over time, or who came to understand their behavior differently?
Interviewee: I've heard of one or two people who have particularly, if they have other complicating factors like other anxiety disorders or depression, I've heard of a few hospitalized hoarders who after some pharmacological interventions briefly seemed to show some insight like, "Why is it I have so many animals?" And yet, they relapsed. I had one hoarder who was probably kind of low on the sheet, she had about 20 cats I think at one point so not a real extreme case, but she was also a social worker and while she was in treatment she did seem to have achieved some insight. And actually I learned quite a bit from her because she would describe to me the anxiety she felt days and nights reading websites of petfinder.com and places like that of animals for adoption, and she would describe how she would read about everyone. Or also one of the things we see in hoarders is anxiety over making wrong decisions, and she described to me a station where she actually used to get thrown out of pet food stores because she would spend a long time walking up and down the isles writing down all the ingredients of all the cat food, trying to find what was the best cat food, and when she finally was down to a manageable number of three to four cats but also had a hamster, she described to me her anxiety of trying to find the best exercise wheel to buy for her hamster, couldn't decide and bought 3 different ones and brought them home. So again, that anxiety over making bad decisions that impact their animals, even though they're making incredibly bad decisions when it comes to actual care. 
Rebecca: So this might be a hard questions or maybe it's something that you've already clearly sorted out for yourself, but where on the spectrum--or I guess to ask this question differently--are there other disorders that you think animal hoarding is closely related to? So, that behavior you described sounds very obsessive compulsive, and I also wonder kind of as part two of this question, what you think the relationship is between animal hoarding and object hoarding? Are they different types of the same thing? Are they different expressions of the same impulse, or are they totally different?
Interviewee: They're not totally different, but there are different things--and there is some literature, you know Randy Frost has written some stuff on the distinction between the two. What was the first part of the question? I forgot now.