Rebecca: So the same thing with your Lhasa Apso example is, if you have enough money you can get as many dogs as you want. So that for me raises the question of you know, is this a disorder only a disorder when it starts to interfere with the person's life?
Interviewee: Exactly--well, and that's practically if we get back to my original statement is where this becomes recognized is if it is interfering with your activities of daily living. So, I have a cousin who's got a lot of stuff, but it doesn't quite block his door. Now, if I visit him and I want to sleep on his fold-out couch, he has to spend quite a bit of time taking all the crap off his couch [laughs] so I can sleep, but his bed is clean. Now he's got stacks of magazines around his bed, but he can sleep. So technically he doesn't quite fit, he clearly has hoarder tendencies, but he wouldn't necessarily be on the clinical scales of the photos of stuff, he wouldn't quite qualify. I still think the lady with the 109 well-cared for Lhasa Apsos is a hoarder, but it's not a hoarding case. 
Rebecca: So then that's the question, is a disorder a thought or is a disorder a behavior?
Interviewee: I think...well it's a disorder of thought that often intrudes upon a behavior, although there can be factors that minimize the impact of the behavior or exacerbate the behavior. Getting back to the whole notion of numbers, that's one of the issues I have is we have a couple of hoarding laws, either at the local level or the state level that define--I think originally the Hawaii law basically said that, you know, having more than twenty five animals then you--and of course the hoarding of animals research consortium agrees that you don't define hoarding disorder based on the number of animals. It is based I think on the relationship and on the conditions, but that's one of the complicated things is as a legal criminal issue, as an animal protective issue you might have four poorly cared for animals but you don't recognize their problems. And so at that level, your four animals might be hoarding, you might just not have the resources or the energy to go out and get more animals, and likewise you might have 20 animals and you invest all your time and money and they're well cared-for, and further complications socially--we've had this happen a few times--is you'll have someone like the woman who lives with the 109 Lhasa Apsos and everything's fine, and then she dies and who wants 109 Lhasa Apsos? Then it becomes a problem of the state to deal with. So it becomes a problem, it's not an animal cruelty problem but it still is a problem because it still was a disorder of sorts. But I do see it is an internal disorder that reveals itself in a behavior, which may or may not negatively impact the animals depending on a lot of other conditions.
Rebecca: Mhhm, mhmm. Well I really appreciate your time today so just to wrap up, that was all the questions.