Interviewer: Yeah, well even if they're not post hoc, even if they're real justifications, they still see them as justifications.
So, what they are saying is, "There are good reasons for saving objects in our society and I am saving objects in a way that is acceptable," and so I guess what I'm wondering, to frame this as a question is, from the US to Australia, do you see any differences in the way that people would justify this?
Like this scrupulosity that [NAME] talks about, environmental ways or, you know, there's really a spectrum, and so I'm wondering, is what people are saying when they give these justifications some kind of litany of reasons that we as a society have said, "It's okay to save a lot of things."
So like, sentimental reasons, or environmental reasons, or usefulness.
Are these like some kind of way that we as a society justify saving in general and hoarders are just using them?
And if so, is that different in Australia?
Interviewee: Absolutely, and what the person thinks is more of a justification.
So, wherever I go on TV or radio and talk about clutter and hoarding, I notice people get really hopped up, particularly about the idea of discarding books.
I think that speaks to your point a little bit, that people see--everyone agrees that books are great, right, and knowledge and literature, and books are this cornerstone of our civilization, and how could you ask me to throw our book?
So, they might save a whole bunch of other stuff, but they hang on to that as something that seems morally defensible.
"You're asking me to throw out my books, that seems like it would make me an evil person," and I also love books so, I get what they're talking about.
But I would say maybe what's also interesting about your point is not just cultural differences, and I'm not sure there's sufficient differences in the culture of Australia and the U.S., I mean there are some differences in that domain, but also differences in time.
I think since I grew up in the 80s, there's been a lot more awareness of environmental impact and landfall and plastic.
I mean, where I live has a particular emphasis on plastic in the oceans because I live near the water, but in general that awareness, I would like to see whether or not that has heightened over time.
I think, and I would have some weird memory bias here, but when I was treating hoarding patients as a student, like in the early 2000s, there was less talk of, "Landfill, it's going to landfill" and now that that's become heightened in everyone's mind, there is a lot more talk in our hoarding groups of "I just can't bear this is going to go and sit in landfill."
So, I wonder in a way sometimes I think about how the intersection between public policy regarding we need people to recycle, we need people to reuse, we need people not to just throw things away mindlessly, has interacted with hoarding clients.
Their environmental scrupulosity, like I guess I wonder whether Randy's measure is going to go up and up and up in time, and whether in some ways it's a good thing.
Like as a population we need to become more environmentally scrupulous, but the hoarding clients it's problematic because it means that sometimes they can't see that, yes this is going to landfill and there really is no other option.
What I always talk about with clients is like, if you find something that's actually not recyclable in your home, and it can't be recycled and it can't be reused, then no one wants it, like--I don't know of a good example, like a broken piece of a plastic toy--you can say you can't throw it away because you really don't want it to go to landfill, but then what happens is the landfill becomes your house.
Your house is the landfill, and eventually when you die that landfill will get moved to the real landfill, but you're not doing any favors to the landfill by keeping the landfill in your house.
Um, anyways, sorry that was a long rant but my point is I do think that cultural, socially sanctioned reasons is a really amazing, great point as well but I've seen more changes with time than across the U.S. vs Australia.