Interviewer: Do you ever have trouble making the distinction between hoarding disorder and perhaps an obsessive compulsive disorder, where they're not throwing things away for reasons that are based in kind of more compulsions rather than being hoarding disorder?
So, somebody who doesn't throw stuff away because they're worried about losing something that they might need, or they're really fearful of kind of germs and they don't want to touch their stuff to throw it out?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that in that latter case with the germs, you're able to figure that out pretty quickly.
There are some cases that might be a little trickier, and then I think I look for other types of OCD symptom dimensions.
So, if one thing is that they're saving all their toe nail clippings because they don't want part of themselves thrown out, and the other things are more traditional OCD contamination intrusive thoughts about whatever, I might wrap it up with the OCD.
But if the only thing is possessions, I would be more likely to give it hoarding.
Interviewer: Do you think that someone can have both obsessive compulsive disorder and hoarding as separate things?
Interviewee: Yes, I have seen people who have both, yeah.
I'm thinking of one guy in particular, he had contamination concerns and hoarding and it made the hoarding treatment really difficult because everything he needed to throw away he needed to wear gloves and go through an elaborate procedure, but that wasn't the only reason, as you were describing in the previous example, that he wasn't throwing them away.
The also was really attached to them and had trouble making decisions about them and wanted to save everything, the OCD just added another layer of complications, but wasn't the only driving factor.
Like, "Oh if you could dispose of this without having any germs, would you throw it all away?" "No, no, I wouldn't, I still need all my stuff."
So, yeah, I've seen people have both.
Interviewer: Do you feel like it's common for people to have both, or it's pretty unusual?
Interviewee: I'd say it's not that common.
I think that was one of our kind of misguided early research things, when it was considered part of OCD and people still think that way when you submit papers or talk in clinical settings, that it's all still highly connected OCD, and I think the comorbidity research and my own clinical experience has found that you're much more likely to see a person with hoarding with depression and social anxiety and worry, generalized anxiety disorder, than a person with hoarding who has critical OCD, separate to the hoarding.
I think that's born out by the research, but also, we see that might be 1 in 20 or 30 that we see that has hoarding plus OCD, but half of our sample is depressed.
Interviewer: And I guess, this again I'm asking you to kind of speculate, but do you feel like they have comorbid depression because perhaps those are genetically related, or do you feel like they have comorbid depression because of the impact that hoarding disorder is having on their life?
Interviewee: Definitely more the former, they have underlying environmental genetic vulnerability to emotional disorders.
They had a hard life and they have genetic predisposition, and they have all these problems that have led to both, not like they would have been fine but the hoarding made them sad.