Interviewer: The really extreme example is a, I read an article in the newspaper about a couple who died whose home was absolutely impassable and was filled to the brim with their art collection, and their art collection turned out to be valued at millions and millions of dollars, they were actually art collectors and they had a lot of knowledge, you know, they had Picassos and Matisse, and all kinds of stuff, but completely not on display, filling their home, making their rooms jam-packed, and they knew where the stuff was and they knew what they had but it was not organized.
Interviewee: That's a great extreme example, what did people do with that one?
Interviewer: Yeah,
Interviewee: Are you just an art collector with not enough space?
Because if they had more space and more assistance and stuff to organize it, it is all valuable art.
Interviewer: Sure, yeah, I mean--
Interviewee: Yeah, they're still disorganized about it, they're still chaotic about it, they're still letting it get in the way of their functioning.
That's a great example.
Interviewer: And where do you think that would fall?
I mean, how would you make that call?
Interviewee: How I would make that call is I would probably need to go into their home and see what's happening.
So if it was the case that they had a small apartment but they were really finding all these amazing things and it was just starting to impede on their space, I probably wouldn't give them a diagnosis.
But if it had that chaotic nature where they weren't doing any problem solving, they were collecting other stuff that was, I don't know.
I don't think I would diagnose it in that case, possibly.
I'm going to say maybe no. Are they still able to--I mean how severe has it gotten in terms of the use of their home?
Are they not sleeping in their beds, are they not using their showers, are they not cooking because they have art everywhere, literally?
Or is it just pretty crowded because of all the art?
Interviewer: My understanding from the newspaper article that I read was that it was like every square inch of their home was jam-packed, but like I wasn't there so I don't know.
Interviewee: So, they really were kind of having to squish their way through.
They really couldn't do anything in their home.
Interviewer: I mean, where this is reflected in the DSM-V is the difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value, and I guess I'm wondering like, is the inability to properly evaluate or value items a necessary part of the disorder or not?
Interviewee: Right, and I guess if you just go back to our general psychiatric classification system and try and step back from hoarding per se, it's still a disorder if they're not functioning in their home.
If they're not able to bathe and they're not eating well, and they're feeling distraught and embarrassed to have people over, then there's still something that's gone wrong there there.
It's a weird case of hoarding because everything's valuable, but it seems like it is a disorder and what disorder could it be besides hoarding?
If they're getting to the point where it really is making them miserable and/or unable to function.