Rebecca: To me, when it becomes a pragmatic problem, and again, my point in saying this is not to say there is a potential way of doing this better because there may just not be, is less for treatment. For clinicians you're getting the people who want to be treated, you're getting the people whose lives are being impacted, those are the people that you're getting; but for research, in terms of really understanding the disorder, if you're systematically excluding people who are so extreme and delusional that they don't have any distress, or on the other hand people whose spaces are managed by others, like children, you know like you have to I guess be careful at a certain time that these pragmatic criteria are not kind of cutting off sections of the population who just won't reach this point for other reasons. You know, that's where you get into research--
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean I think it's a fantastic point. I do wonder if it's a minority of cases, but I do think it's an interesting point. And I don't know if it's that problematic, now that I think about it. I love the question, your question of relying on other people to create the distress, but I don't know if in actuality it does create so much problems, because we are all people who live and function within a world, within other humans and other things around us. And so if our distress is driven by the fact that our behavior is causing problems of conflict in the world around us, whether it's friends, or families, or neighbors, or landlords, or work, employers, anyone, I mean those are all humans but also space-related things, then maybe that's okay. Maybe it's not perfect, but it still suggests that you're putting the person in context. That people don't live like little space people floating around in the world, and if the distress that they experience related to their hoarding is related to the people and organizations around them, that's okay. Maybe it's unrealistic to think that the person's floating in a bubble and just looking at them and their thoughts and beliefs and not how it's playing out in their context.
Rebecca: Sure, that makes total sense. Yeah, I mean, I think the--
Interviewee: I think it'd be a really cool debate though; I think it's such an interesting point your raising would be is this really worth considering? And also worth considering the ways in which hoarding is different from other disorders, I think about this all the time. We talk about in Australia, there's this advertisement for a storage company now that says like, "I'm not a hoarder, I just have attachment issues" and my PhD student was like, "You know if this was eating disorders, no one would think it's acceptable to say, "I'm not anorexic, I'm just on a diet" or "I'm not--" you know, whatever, "I'm not schizophrenic, I'm just a creative thinker" no one would think that's acceptable, but with hoarding everyone laughs and this its acceptable and funny. And there's so many things like that where you see that hoarding has a different kind of place in the world than all these other disorders.