Interviewer: Okay, do you believe that, or have you seen cases of subclinical hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Rarely, sometimes, sometimes the young people will do some testing with undergraduates and we see like, "oh dear, this could be hoarding one day."
Right now to keep it all in their dorm room or they live with their parents and it's all in their room, but the emotional attachment that they have to possessions makes us fearful that they will eventually when they hit 30, 40, 50, have it.
Interviewer: Well so, that brings me to a question that I was going to ask you later but I can ask now, it said: as I'm sure you're aware, the literature shows that hoarding disorder's more common in elderly people, and I guess what I'm wondering is do you see that as being kind of like... it is progressive?
Interviewee: An artifact.
Interviewer: Yeah, and it's progressive in the sense that it gets worse as you age or do you see it as a result of social factors like elderly people have had more time to accumulate items, perhaps they have had their parents die and dump a bunch of items on them, perhaps their children are now out of the house and their spouse has divorced them because of this behavior and now it's all out of control and that's why we're seeing them?
So like has the impulse gotten worse over their lifespan, or has it just gotten to the point in older people where they can no longer control it, also because of cognitive or mobility issues?
Interviewee: I think both of those things and an artifact of the way that we do research and when people finally develop insight motivation.
So, sometimes people who have hoarding problems in their 20s and 30s haven't had enough problems associated with it, were not coming in for treatment, but yeah I do think that actually, I wish I could pick one or the other, but it's both.
I think that people do...the hoarding impulse might get stronger, they might get more disheveled, more life stressors over time, but also that you're right, it's just the sheer volume of stuff adds up, which is not what you get with other disorders.
But, people we see now that are undergrads, they might have had serious hoarding urges, but the amount of stuff that they've saved is still able to be contained in a room, and if they keep on at this going rate, it's like with eating habits and things sometimes you think that if you could just, if you said, "If this is what you eat every day, this is what you'll look like in 10 years", same thing with hoarding.
Like, "If you continue to hold on to this much stuff, this is like your house will look like in 10 years."
But right now it doesn't just because time hasn't allowed that much stuff to accumulate, which is your second point.
But also, yeah I think that because there's those factors of trauma and stresses, that people who might've been sentimental savors and then have stressful life events happen, their depression got worse, they have become...have had other medical problems and the actual hoarding tendencies also became stronger, as well as, like you said, the accumulation of stuff.