Interviewer: And, I mean, that sort of brings us really nicely to the next part of the interview and I don't want to take up more of your time than I have a right to; so, cut us off when you're done.
So, first of all, I guess I'll just jump right into, [NAME] published this paper about insight and hoarding, where he broke hoarding down into four different constructs, and the constructs are defensiveness; anosognosia, or the lack of ability to perceive an illness or that anything is wrong; overvalued ideation, which is believing that your items are more valuable than they are; or indifference.
And I wonder, when you think about insight, which of these 4 do you think about most?
Which do you kind of experience with patients most?
Interviewee: I'm sorry, could you just go through them one more time for me?
Overvalued ideation, what were the other three?
Interviewer: Overvalued ideation, so believing your items are more valuable than they truly are; anosognosia, which is being unable to perceive your illness or that something is wrong, causing distress, so kind of like illness blindness.
So, if somebody's had a stroke they don't notice that their left side is not responding.
Defensiveness, which is kind of related to not acknowledging it because they're worried about losing their things; and indifference, so saying, "I know that this space is unacceptable by most people's standards, but I don't care and I'm happy with it."
Interviewee: Okay, so are you asking which is the most common or which is the hardest to deal with?
Interviewer: Yeah, both I guess but mostly what do you think of when you think of insight in hoarding disorder.
All four of those or are there one or two that jump out at you as being, kind of, at the root of the problem?
Interviewee: I guess I kind of think of all of them, except for maybe--well, yeah I think of all of them to some extent.
I've seen them all in different clients.
Definitely the defensiveness, I think there's a lot of clients if you push past their concern and their fear and their anxiety, they know it's a problem.
Definitely the indifference, that's been coming up with some really low insight, like they just don't care.
And overvalued ideation, its like, "Yeah, I care but it's obviously not--".
I probably would say defensiveness and overvalued ideation would be my top two.
Interviewer: Okay, part of the reason that I'm asking you is both anosognosia, or illness blindness, and overvalued ideation almost sound like delusions.
So, like is the problem of insight in hoarding in your mind like, "I'm looking at my room full of stuff and I truly truly cannot see how bad it is" like, in the sense of a delusion.
Or--
Interviewee: That's why I don't fully buy the illness one.
But yeah, I do think that sometimes the thinking in hoarding is so skewed that it gets to the border of delusion.
Like an example would be a hoarding client who saves Easter eggs that she wanted to give to the neighborhood kids four years ago, and now they're rotten and bad, and she still can't throw them out and she has fantasies of just running down the street and throwing them on the ground because it would be less upsetting to her than throwing them in the bin.
Like, on some level it's crossing to this line of insight in delusionality that these rotten Easter eggs are still something meaningful and worth saving.
Like that overvalued ideation, it's yeah, not quite normal cognition.