Rebecca: Yeah, I agree with you. I agree that like the pragmatic, these these criteria are very pragmatic and they make sense for those reasons, and I'm not again like I agree that there may not be a better way of doing this. I'm just uneasy, again, because just like with the clutter criteria themselves and the distress criteria, we've come to a place where the disorder is again external to the patient. We're relying on a landlord or a family member to cause the distress, the distress is a product of their disorder. It's kind of like a side effect, you know like, they save stuff as a side effect of having the behavior or the beliefs. 
Interviewee: So, if you strip that away I mean I think these are all important, interesting questions, I'm just thinking like okay if you strip those things away, everything that is external is no longer. It would be another interesting thought experiment to think what would you have left? Just difficulty discarding? Is that it? That you feel an emotional distress or are upset about throwing things away? And would people feel comfortable with that being a disorder?
Rebecca: Yeah, something like rigidity in their beliefs about saving, like lack of ability to moderate. Something along those lines, it would have to be very--because you know, and again, I'm not saying that that would be better, it would definitely be way harder to use, but when you think about like--
Interviewee: It's an important conversation, it reminds me a little bit, I guess you would argue this is still central to the person, if you removed all the weight criteria from anorexia and said like there's so many young women and men and people who just constantly obsessively worry about their weight and dieting and whatever, but they're normal weight or slightly overweight. What if we just said, "Well, weight shouldn't matter, they're still struggling, they're still obsessing every day, they're stills upset about their weight, let's just get rid of that and we don't need them to be 20% underweight." I mean, that would just create so many problems, right, in terms of the pragmatic world of the medical system. But, in a way, you could see it. They're still weighing themselves constantly and dieting constantly and thinking about their weight constantly, so I kind of think of that sort of parallel. Like yes, there are probably ways, if you stripped all that away and just looked at people's rigidity about their stuff and whether their thinking had distorted beliefs and whether they had trouble throwing things away, you get some more pure kernel essence that's driving it. But if you think about what's making it a disorder in the world, you have to start putting these pragmatic things on it that acknowledge the fact that we have limited resources, and that we all struggle to some extent with our possessions and say like what in the world says that this is something that we need to intervene? Part of the nature of the diagnostic system is saying, "When do we need to intervene?" And if we intervene every time someone has rigid thinking about their stuff, and every time they have trouble making decision, then it's impossible. But if we contrive it to those cases where everyone can see, like the house is overflowing, the person is distraught, that--I guess that's arguing for dimensional system of hoarding too, that you could say, "The stuff you're talking about, the quirky elements that reside within individuals are really important and they fluctuate on a continuum, but still when it crosses the line for intervention is still different. I don't know, really interesting philosophical point though. I like your idea that how it does rely on all these external things to make the diagnosis.