Interviewer: So I'll give you a typical picture, a lot of what you said resonates with everybody's kind of idea.
They'll say like a person who talks a lot and talks kind of tangentially and seems like they have trouble zeroing in on the topic of conversation sometimes, like you said, very frazzled, they tend to be kind of like get overly emotionally empathetic or overly involved in other people's lives and business and drama, they are always late for everything, they always have a ton of stuff with them everywhere they go, they are very disorganized in every aspect of their life, so they can't manage their calendar, stuff like that.
Interviewee: Yeah, and I guess the positive aspect of that that sometimes goes along with it is they do some--not everyone, but again as a stereotype, really interested in things and kind of creative.
So, really like, "What is this lecture series that's happening?" Or "Why are you answering that question?" Or "I saw on my way in that they're doing a rally for this" so just kind of generally, I would say on the positive side, creative, intellectually curious kind of people would be the counter point in terms of things you see that are kind of fun and nice about hoarding clients, I find.
Interviewer: It's interesting too, and I don't know if this is just because the people I've interviewed generally like all of their clients, but I feel like experts in hoarding disorder, as you just did, often go out of their way to say like, "Actually there's really nice things about these people as well."
Interviewee: I hope it's not because we all perceive there to be a stigma against it.
Interviewer: Yeah, maybe, I don't know I just--
Interviewee: Which I think there is.
Interviewer: Yeah, there definitely is, but I've definitely had the experience of clinicians often times kind of pointing out the creative and interesting aspect of people with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, oh good.
Interviewer: Yeah, anyway,
Interviewee: I mean that's probably the reason some of us have chosen to work with it as well.
Interviewer: Right, there's a bias there for sure.
So, just to kind of dive into the rest of our interview script, if you wouldn't mind just giving me like a two minute overview of your experience in terms of this disorder and, you know, if you see patients clinically, if you're mostly involved with research.
Interviewee: Okay, so, starting in Graduate school I was running hoarding treatment groups supervised by [NAME] and then decided to do that as my PhD research and from that time on, have done a series of studies over the last two decades.
I guess the first one would've been 2003-ish, so not quite two decades, decade and a half.
Studies on hoarding, cognitive functioning, emotional functioning, treatment of hoarding.
And while that has happened, I've been doing some treatment of hoarding, a little bit of clinical work, but much more research and supervision.
So, I supervise, my most recent clinical experience is that I supervise the weakly hoarding treatment groups through a community center and also through units at my university clinic.
So, we meet regularly and go through all the hoarding clients and that's been going on for three of four years.