Rebecca: Okay, so just to get into kind of talking about the diagnostic criteria now, for you, what do you think are the most important differences between the spectrum of normal saving behavior, such as perhaps extreme collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I mean I always fall back on like the DSM interference and distress, but I think that's probably a little bit of a banal answer or not exactly what you're looking for. What is the main difference? I guess maybe your ability to be realistic about your ability to and your need to keep things, that we all might have a moment where I think, "Aww, there's 20 million of my children's books, I would love to keep them all," but then I'm able to realistically think about how much I'm going to use them and how much space I have in my home and make the decision according to that, versus being driven by my emotions and my anxiety to just keep everything. I don't know how that's gonna be well summarized, but, balancing out your desire to save things with more pragmatic, realistic decision making. I guess there's also the fact of probably not having as many--that would be the other obvious thing is, while I may have those feelings of attachment and wanting to save a few things, people with hoarding have them about a lot of things, so that would be the other major distinction. That we all struggle with certain items, but people with hoarding it's often the vast majority of items that gets them.
Rebecca: And do you think it's possible to have a person with hoarding disorder who saves only a particular kind of item? So, a person who has an extensive like cuckoo clock collection that fills their home would still fit the criteria.
Interviewee: Cuckoo clocks, that might be harder to fit the criteria because you could possibly be a connoisseur and it sounds less-likely that it could dominate your living space completely, but I have seen people that, for example, primarily collect bikes, but they're old and broken bikes, and they do fill up their homes, their garage, their living space, their bedrooms, and they're not organized, they're not high value, and yes it's one item, but it is a problem. I think it's rare because usually people have more of a mix, but I do think it's possible. 
Rebecca: So, the kind of indiscriminate nature of the saving is not a firm diagnostic criteria, but it does tend to be less discriminant?
Interviewee: Um, I guess I would say, cuz even the bike scenario, that it is still indiscriminate. So, if you have one type of item you're saving but you're discriminant about...selective about those items, that you only are saving nice, valuable, could sell in the market place bikes or cuckoo clocks, that it would be hard to make the case that it was hoarding. However, if it was suddenly any cuckoo-related product or parts of broken down ones, and you just filled your house with ones that were no longer functioning or valuable to anyone but you and it is indiscriminate, even if it is a single type of item. So, I guess you could still use indiscriminate, whether you're indiscriminately saving a range of items or indiscriminately saving one item without properly acknowledging the value and the functioning aspects of those items.