Rebecca: Okay, can you think of an example of a specific case or cases where you personally had trouble making diagnostic decisions, either whether it was true hoarding or subclinical hoarding, or whether it was hoarding or something else. 
Interviewee: Yeah, where that's why I kind of like your art example because in reality, I feel like that rarely happens. Almost always, I'd say 99% of the time, I'm pretty clear about whether it's hoarding or not. I guess the only times I do have occasional challenges where it's like, is this hoarding secondary to depression or alcohol or schizophrenia, that sometimes comes up, but not really as much related to the nature of the collection. It's usually pretty clear, it's disorganized, it's disheveled, there might be some things of value in there, but they've gotten overwhelmed. The stuff has taken over, and they're no longer in control. So, I don't usually have trouble based on the stuff that they're hoarding making a decision on. The bigger decisions for me are, "Okay there's some squalor happening, the person's not getting out of bed, they're not taking care of their functioning, is this hoarding and squalor secondary to just not being able to maintain their activities of daily living?" 
Rebecca: So, along those lines kind of how do you make the distinction between a person, or do you find it difficult to distinguish between a person who has a primary diagnosis or hoarding disorder versus a primary diagnosis of depression, which is causing them to not be able to throw stuff out because they're too depressed to get up and do it?
Interviewee: Yeah, so my key question with that one is, "Okay, if I were to come over tomorrow and throw things away to help you clear out your house, how would you feel?" And a person with depression is usually like, "That would be great, please do that." You know, maybe they would want to point out a few things to save, but they just have such apathy and overwhelmed and so depressed, they can't do it. But a person who is actually hoarding would say, "No, I don't want to throw any of those things away" or "I would really struggle or feel really unsettled if you threw any of these things away" and then it's clear that there is that core feature of difficulty discarding and attachment. So, it's not apathy that leads to inability to motivate to discard, but actual difficulty discarding. That's for me the way I kind of navigate that one.