Interviewer: But, let's turn to that distress criteria because the answer you gave about distress and seeking treatment is common.
The genesis of this project is the problem of insight and the problem that you have a lot of patients with hoarding disorder who, you know, if you think about the kind of stereotypical example of a hoarding patient with low insight, has a house that's completely hoarded out, that's completely filled with stuff, lives fairly socially isolated, and until there's an external source of pressure, is happy living that way, at least in their own mind; so, they're not seeking treatment.
So, with that person, where's the distress?
Interviewee: I guess, for me, I allow it to be the distress that brought them into treatment, which may not be--you're absolutely right--distress about the stuff they have, but distress about the issues that have resulted from it.
So for me I'm perfectly happy that the distress they come in with is, "I'm going to be evicted, people are yelling at me, my sister's trying to make me throw out my stuff" is hoarding related, but you're right, it's not the distress they have about having too much stuff, it's whatever external issues have happened around that.
So, to me, the hoarding itself in my mind is causing the distress in their life, they think the distress is related to people won't leave them alone or the landlord is being unreasonable or their spouse wants to divorce them for unfair reasons.
But to me, hoarding is causing distress, and whether or not it's the hoarding directly to distress of the hoarding to impacting other people to distress, is important clinically, but not what I use to make the diagnosis.
So, if it's causing distress in their life, I don't need them to have insight necessarily that it's the hoarding yet, because there is so much low insight.
But still in the grand scheme, again, what is psychopathology and where is our role as clinicians in diagnosing and helping people?
It fits in my mind, this person is experiencing pain because of this problem they have, even if it's indirect.
Interviewer: And in a hypothetical scenario where the person doesn't have that conflict, so owns a home, doesn't have a landlord, lives in an isolated enough place that no one is contacting their space, that wouldn't fit criteria for you.
So, would that person have hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Um, it would, it would still fit criteria for me.
I guess I was talking more about the scenarios where they're coming in for treatment and not saying distress, that it would be easy.
But yeah, if I was then doing some sort of interview and I showed up to their house in Iceland and it was like, "I'm doing a community nationwide survey of hoarding" and I looked at their house and I saw that they were saving, I would still diagnose it as hoarding low insight.
So, but they have the mansion, right, so yeah that is a tricky one.
What's the interference?
It’d be good if you could start doing like global interference, like it's interfering because it's taking up huge amounts of resources and it has a major environmental impact to have four mansions in Iceland with your stuff, even if you don't realize it.