Rebecca: What about, you know you could imagine two patients, right, and they're exhibiting, they have the exact same cognition, perhaps they have the same life experience these two hypothetical patients, they save the same amount of items, and one of them has a lot of money and can afford to buy six storage areas and has basically a mansion to live in; whereas, the other one lives in a one bedroom apartment. So, one of them is going to have the appearance of much much much more clutter than the other, although they both have the same kind of underlying...even like brain behavior, you know what I mean like they have the same thoughts. How do you decide that--would you decide that they both have hoarding disorder, although one of them isn't cluttered? Would you decide that only the person in the apartment has hoarding disorder or, what? How would you make that call?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think I would still be going back to conflict in distress in that case. They might both very well have hoarding disorder. We have had lots of hoarding clients who say that, "If I just had enough money to buy enough storage to put all my stuff, I wouldn't have any problem." But, okay, the one in the bedroom apartment would be a clear-cut case, okay you have hoarding disorder. But the millionaire with the mansion, it's kind of the way the world works that probably that still would be causing them problems and conflicts, even with their family members not wanting them to be spending all this money on continuously setting up storage spaces and taking up more and more room in the mansion for their stuff. And they might start having some insight into it, so I think that that person, depending on how that behavior was impacting them, could still meet for hoarding. I guess you can imagine a case where they don't have any friends or family and they just keep filling up mansion after mansion, in this surreal experiment--and then I would probably say low insight, like yeah it's still hoarding.
Rebecca: Also, it's an example that we thought of because it was a real example that was given of a person who had a patient who was so rich that they could afford to keep everything and pay someone to organize it. And the clinician that we talked to--
Interviewee: And pay someone to organize it, wow that's another idea too. Right, because that would've been part of the problem. So they could actually have someone to organize it and they just keep adding and adding. Wow, what do other people think about that one? Now that I'm answering, that's a tough one.
Rebecca: Yeah, I mean the clinician who reported the example said that she thought it probably was, but based on this criteria, couldn't give that diagnosis and instead classified it as OCD unspecified for the purposes of realism. Because the person didn't meet the clutter criteria and didn't experience distresses, so.
Interviewee: Painful