Interviewer: I mean, the odd thing about the clutter criteria, for me, is at least when you think about it sort of abstractly, it's hard to think of another example where we require something totally external to the patient in order to make a diagnosis.
In psychology, in psychiatry, in medicine in general, it's weird to think about looking at a person's space as a symptom or as a diagnostic criteria.
And if you were to take a parallel example with OCD, it's not as though if someone has like a hand washing obsession, that we ask to see their hands to say like, "Oh, have you washed your hands enough to qualify as OCD, are you losing skin?" You know, like the ideation and the belief and the behavior is enough, we don't really look at the consequences of the behavior in that was.
Interviewee: Yeah, I absolutely get that, but on the other hand, the pragmatic side of me and the side that knows that we're also up against a world that possibly rightfully pushes back against the idea of overpatholagizing everything and making everything into a disorder and a diagnosis, you know, there's all this kind of variation in how much stuff we want or have, and we just need to leave that alone and not be the psychiatrist fascists who get in there and diagnose everyone and create problems where there are none.
And we have finite resources, so in a way, I think sometimes the danger of removing things like that where hoarding is kind of, whether we like it or not, a more externally-based disorder, and if we start saying, "No, no, anyone who's saving lots of emails and they're upset about it" or "Anyone who would save a lot fo stuff if they could" it just might end up really stepping into the overpatholagizing spectrum, and also diverting resources in research.
So, I totally get what you're saying and I think it's such an interesting philosophical point; but on the other hand, I feel like it might be an imperfect system, but it's a way to say, "We're not trying to arbitrate people."
Like similarly thinking of obesity or other things, we're not trying to regulate how much stuff people have in the world or your relationship with your possessions, we're just trying to identify those cases where it's impacting upon the person's experience in the world and if there is no clutter--I mean that the other extreme then--would you be comfortable if the clutter criteria was removed completely, diagnosing hoarding in someone who said they had these big struggles with making decisions with objects all the time I guess, but that they hadn't saved anything?
They just lived in a perfectly clear environment, I think you'd get in a weird situation there.
Interviewer: No, I agree with you.
I definitely agree, I don't know that there's a--
Interviewee: It's such a tricky one.