Interviewer: Totally, yeah.
Another interesting thing that has happened with this list, I gave you the list of "How would you know that somebody has hoarding disorder?" And some clinicians take it the way you did where it was like, "How would I diagnose a person and know if they came in my office?" But some clinicians have started to generate these lists, and I think that they're just interpreting the question differently, I don't think that this is a difference in understanding, but it's very interesting to me nonetheless, they give a list of what a person with hoarding disorder would look like, like what are some other characteristics of that person apart from their hoarding.
Interviewee: Like sitting in the waiting room without talking to them, yeah that did kind of cross my mind a little, but you're right I didn't go that direction.
That's more of the detective way, like can you tell without someone saying, "I have trouble throwing things away", which is obvious that they might have hoarding problems, but could you see.
I think there are some interesting things like when we had a hoarding treatment group, when the hoarding treatment group would come into the waiting room, people knew before they said, "I'm here for hoarding treatment" that that's what they were there for.
They do present differently from clients with other types of anxiety and mood disorders.
I think that's why I've always kind of talked about cognitive stuff first, being biased because of my own research, but also because of when we have had that experience of treating lots of disorders but who's in the waiting room, you see a lot more of disheveled, confused, attentionally challenged, forgetting things in the restroom, that kind of stuff going on.
Interviewer: So if you were to paint me a picture of a typical hoarding patient, what would they look like?
Interviewee: Yeah, I would say more quirky and eccentric looking, more disheveled, more chaotic looking, sometimes more socially awkward, but some people with hoarding are really socially engaging and charming, but other people just present as a little bit more socially awkward.
Not to the extreme of something like schizophrenia but more in the schizotypy, slightly odd or unusual presentation.
Yeah, so that's I think sometimes--and also, probably more struggling across domains.
You can have people sitting in the waiting room looking for panic disorder who on all apparent circumstances look quite high functioning, but people with hoarding often times look like they're facing lot's of different struggles.