Interview 002
Interviewee: It's surprising to me that experts are disagreeing that much when we have the actual DSM-V criteria.
Rebecca: Yeah, we can talk about it. Let me get--I would like to talk about it with you at the end of the interview so that I can get your, your kind of off the cuff impressions first.
Interviewee: Oh right, good point. Unbiased, yeah, good point.
Rebecca: But no, I would love to hear your thoughts about results because you know we're nearing 30 interviews, and these are interviews really with people who are the experts of all experts on this disorder, the group that we would hope would have the most consistent responses.
Interviewee: Right, that's what's kind of worrying but, like you said, we'll talk about that at the end.
Rebecca: Yeah.
Interviewee: But yeah, you would hope that the 30 of us would have come to an agreement.
Rebecca: Yeah, so there is agreement on some topics, but there's still disagreement on some aspects so, I think it's worthwhile to know about that.
Interviewee: Okay.
Rebecca: Okay, so those are all the lists that I have for you today, I really appreciate you doing that with me. Now I'd like to move more into the interview.
Interviewee: Yeah, that was fun.
Rebecca: Yeah, I mean it's always interesting particularly to see, at least we've just been interviewing clinicians, but the list that is most different I think is the underlying causes, and it really depends on people's backgrounds, the things that might contribute to hoarding disorder, which is probably not a surprise to you. 
Interviewee: Yeah. It's interesting, probably I think the whole trauma thing is a big divider. There's a group of people, maybe clinicians more so, who just think it all comes down to trauma, and then I think there's a variance with researchers who think it's a factor but not the whole factor, is that what's happening?
Rebecca: Yeah, I mean it tends to be people who answer genetics or biology as their first answer and then they generate a certain kind of list, and people who answer something more kind of cognitive like you did like attention or like cognitive function, and then there's maybe like a third group who give very psychological sort of answers where it's more like about the person's life and experiences. And that's just a general trend, people have always seemed to have a mix, but the order that they put them in I think will be very interesting to breakdown based on different kinds of clinicians and researchers, how they think about it. 
Interviewee: Yeah, cuz unfortunately all these things are so messy, there's gonna be an interaction of all those things, and I didn't mention genetics but I do think that creates a backdrop when these things happen. So then I guess the question is the relative contribution is more interesting, because probably genetics do play a role, yeah probably beliefs do play a role, and yes stressful early life events might contribute, so then I guess the question is what are the most important factors, or what people, I guess the clinicians, think is most important and whether or not that's what the clients think it most important.