Rebecca: One way that I am trying to get at that change over time, and this might seem like a silly way, but it's the only way that I've thought of, is the TV show, "Hoarders" has now been on for 10 seasons. So, I'm gonna go through every episode in code for why people say they're saving items and see if it changes over time. Granted, that's a very small sample size, but it's 10 episodes a season and there's two people per episode, so 20 hoarders a year for 10 years, just to see how it shifts.
Interviewee: Wow, that is such a great idea. Yeah, I love it.
Rebecca: We'll see how it goes.
Interviewee: I think people have done interesting stigma stuff, [NAME 1:13:10] I think is doing it, I can't pronounce his last name correctly but showing people's attitudes, this is a different question but, pre- and post- watching the show, "Hoarders" and how it affects their feelings of stigma, but I think using that show over time is also really interesting to see reasons for saving, how they've changed.
Rebecca: We'll see how it goes.
Interviewee: Isn't there a British hoarding show as well as an American one?
Rebecca: Yeah, there's like a ton. And part of what I'm coding for as I watch the episodes, and I'd love your input on it because I've kind of...it's still taking shape, I've got a bunch of undergrads who are working on this with me and we're all kind of coding this together, is all kinds of stuff, so like how much social services are talked about, and eviction. When people express their reasons for distress, like why are people distressed in different scenarios? And kind of the purpose behind that is like, imagine you're a person with this disorder, who's watching the show and identifying with the distress. How much are you being told like, "If I go out and get treatment, what will happen is social services." You know, how is how is treatment described in the show? What are the long term impacts of hoarding disorder as described by the show? To kind of see what message it's sending and how that plays into this problem of seeking treatment and being retained in treatment. But anyway, we'll see what happens.
Interviewee: Yeah, I love it. Who are you working with, sorry I've lost track from our long ago scheduling e-mails. Where are you?
Rebecca: I'm at the University of Florida.