Interviewer: Okay, so as we get into our discussion of the DSM-V a little bit more, I'm wondering if just kind of off the top of your head there are particular elements of the criteria that you kind of have suspected or suspect may be difficult to apply or that different clinicians that might apply differently, perhaps due to clinical judgment.
Is there anything that sticks out to you,, like in reflecting on those criteria as--?
Interviewee: Honestly, no. I mean, I guess prior to this conversation I thought they seemed reasonably clear and solid and I didn't have any real concerns about being able to apply them.
Now that you're raising it, I'm sure I can understand how some things are being interpreted differently.
But, before this conversation, I thought it was fairly straightforward, pretty good criteria.
Interviewer: Okay, and I guess like, just to take a step back and clarify, the purpose of this study was never to critique the DSM-V criteria, and it may be that this is the best criteria that there could be, I mean like there may just be--
Interviewee: Oh yeah, I wasn't implying that you're critiquing it, I just think it's interesting that people are applying it differently, and that hasn't really occurred to me.
I mean, I guess I may be overly optimistic like, "Oh now we have criteria, we're all applying them" and it's probably realistic and reasonable to find that no, there are still some discrepancies in how people are considering things.
But good to know, I think it's good that you're doing this.
Interviewer: So, for this criteria, the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, so the clutter criteria, and substantially compromises their intended use.
So, how do you make that determination, and I'll follow up that question in a moment but when a patient comes into your office, how do you make that determination?
Do you get them to describe their space, do you look at photographs of their space?
Interviewee: Yeah, ideally both.
Get them to describe their space, get them to provide photographs, and then use the clutter image rating scale to appoint photographs, if they don't have photographs.
And then I do those for the functioning thing and I start talking about things that we as humans need to do in our homes, and finding out which of those things are causing problems in which rooms.
But sometimes it gets tricky with that, that is one area that now I'm reflecting on, and what can be tricky is people live with other people, and they might describe hoarding that seems quite severe but is localized and we wonder, "Is that hoarding now and is it crossing the clinical line if all of it is contained to your garage and your second bedroom and your storage space?" And usually it's much more straight forward if it's crossed into their main living room and they have that clear interference with activities of daily living.
But then we can also fall back on the distress, so maybe they have so much stuff in their garage, their second bedroom, and their living room and it's causing conflict and distress and they're really upset and they can't figure out how to get rid of this and they're really attached, but they might still be clinical even though they're able to shower and cook and watch TV and socialize, because of their spouse they've kept certain areas clear.