Interviewer: And I mean, where you really see this, or at least where I've really seen this in my interviews is with anybody who's had contact with animal hoarding.
People talk about animal hoarding as being like truly on the delusional spectrum, where they really believe that they're saving these animals that are dying on the floor.
Interviewee: Truly horrific, yeah, the things that they don't see, that they really truly believe that they love these animals and that these animals are suffering and that they can't see it is just a horrific combination.
Interviewer: So, I guess that is kind of my question.
If this distress criteria is a necessary component to the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, but at the same time we're saying that the disorder itself may have a delusional component whereby they truly can't see the things that would be distressing to them, how do we make the diagnosis?
Interviewee: What about my weasel strategy of they might not be distressed because of the animal or the items, but they are distressed because people are threatening to take their animals away or people are yelling at them about their clutter.
That's like my weasel way around it, I mean I guess that it's not great but it avoids to be stripping away all these criteria, now you don't have to have distress, you don't have to have interference, you don't have to have clutter, and again we end up at the thing where like, does everyone have hoarding?
I have too many books or I'm upset about trying to decide what of my daughter's clothes to give away or you know, everyone can relate to some attachment to possessions, and I don't think--we have enough problems justifying it as a disorder that if we strip away too much of being selective about it, we risk even more being considered what I would call a small and trivial disorder where people think, "It's just that old ladies have too many trinkets."
So I think in some way, staying a bit conservative is kind of important.
But, yeah I do take your point that it should be able to say--that's why I like my weasel strategy, it could say someone has hoarding disorder and distress, like my Easter egg lady.
She was very distressed about her hoarding, but not necessarily about the object themselves but about the impact in her life.
And you could still say she has low insight, that she thinks all these things are still worth saving and that they themselves are not the problem.