Interviewer: And when you’re talking about this kind of inappropriate evaluation that’s apart of hoarding disorder, how does this manifest, in your experience?
Is it an inappropriate monetary evaluation, so that they think that things are worth more money than they are?
Is it more of an emotional evaluation?
Or maybe an aesthetic evaluation?
Or does it just depend on the patient?
Interviewee: I think it very much depends on the patient.
I think it can be all of those.
It-- I mean some of them will say it’s a monetary thing and most of them are not wealthy people, money is an issue.
But when it actually comes down to it, it’s more, I think sometimes money- but mostly its value is in the memories or its potential value, and the value of not being wasteful, of being considered a frugal person or a creative person- it kind of defines them, their stuff.
Or the aesthetics of it, like someone with hoarding might look at a rusted-out bottle top- you know the aesthetics of that bottle top kind of calls to them.
Interviewer: Mhm.
So it’s not as simple as, you know, clear value that they like the idea that the stuff will be useful to them.
They like being able to use things and seeing them as useful.
So there can be kind of a range.
Interviewee: Yeah, and it being thought of as creative and individual.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok, uhm that’s interesting, it makes sense.
The next criteria I’d just like to have you talk through in the same way goes “The difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.”
So, I’m thinking about this one, how do you kind of go about making that determination of how much stuff is too much?
And do you think home size or other people in the home affect the degree to which you might see clutter in the space?
And how do you kind of grapple with those issues in making a diagnosis?
Interviewee: Uhm, sorry the lines very fuzzy so I’m only catching bits of what you’re saying.
Interviewer: I’m sorry.
Interviewee: No, that’s okay.
I’m fairly familiar with the diagnosis.
So, we would do an assessment of a- spending a lot of energy and time in accumulating stuff, like going out and buying stuff, going out and acquiring stuff.
Or is their stuff in the house stuff that normally comes in, like it comes into all of our homes, but they can’t get rid of it?
So, there’s that assessment.
And then there’s the assessment, you know, are there specific areas in their home that they can’t use for their intended purpose?
Would they be embarrassed if someone were to come into their home right now?
We have them take pictures of their home or we have them go to their home and we do FaceTime, so we can see what their home looks like.
Obviously, the younger people or married people, we would talk with their family members, because often their family members are the people that kind of put the brakes on or try to set limits with the amount of stuff that comes in.
And then we look at the actual stuff that they’re acquiring; you know, if they’re acquiring stuff like ten boxes of sauce pans on the home shopping channel or are they accumulating more kind of junk-like stuff like receipts and plastic bags and boxes and things.
CROSS_TALK