Interviewer2: Yeah, that’s great.
Are there any other differences that you’ve noted?
You know, racially, in terms of SES, rural versus urban?
Interviewee: Economically, I would say lower economic class.
But that-- yes, for sure.
These are people who are struggling financially, mostly.
Ethnicity, mostly white, but that can be because we’re a hospital that only takes insurance and things like that- that might not represent the general population at all.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok. And can you think of a specific case or maybe a couple cases that were challenging to diagnose, either clinically or in research, because the individuals were on the border between pathological and nonpathological behavior, maybe subclinical?
And how you went about making that distinction?
Interviewee: Huh… I can’t think of many cases where it was difficult to diagnose because of- there was subclinical.
Usually it’s more difficult to diagnose because the person with hoarding is very much trying to keep it a secret or very much minimize the problem, but we would use the very typical standard kind of clinical definition of hoarding; if they have so much stuff that they cant use areas of their home for their intended function or they are tending to accumulate stuff that the rest of us might think of as junk or excessive, we do put a little bit more emphasis I think-- at UNIVERSITY  we put a bit more emphasis on executive functioning deficits too- that that’s a huge part of hoarding disorder that isn’t necessarily in the clinical criteria.
Interviewer2: How did that manifest in the patients that you’ll see with deficits?
Interviewee: Very disorganized, unable to make decisions, unable to prioritize, difficulty initiating a task, difficulty completing tasks-- Even the most mundane, banal, simple tasks, they typically struggle with.
Interviewer1: Do you feel like it’s sometimes difficult to make a clinical diagnosis of hoarding disorder in terms of other, either concomitant mental health problems that the person might have or because they might look similar to Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and other mental health disorders?
Interviewee: No, I mean, I’m kind of used to doing pretty thorough and pretty extensive evaluations.
So, we would do a thorough evaluation for OCD and we’d do a thorough evaluation for hoarding disorder.
If we suspect hoarding disorder, we always ask for photographs of the home- they bring in photographs of their home; we usually go down and look at their car.
No, I think we can usually-- I don’t think we’ve had much, kind of a quizzical diagnosis with hoarding disorder.
But maybe we deal with a specific range of hoarding disorders, so we do deal with the kind of mild to moderate to moderate to severe range.
We don’t really deal with extreme severe hoarding disorder, not the kind of stuff that you see on the shows all the time- sometimes but not very often.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Uhm so kind of to continue along these lines, we want to think through the DSM5 criteria with you; just in terms of seeing how its applied, seeing how the individual, kind of, criteria come into play in making a diagnosis.
So, for the next portion of the interview, I’d like to just read you the criteria and then get your- kind of get your feedback on how you think about them and how you’ve used them.
And you’ve used these criteria with the intent of diagnosing an individual with hoarding disorder, correct?
Interviewee: Right.