Interviewer 1: Ok. Well I appreciate you doing that with us.
That’s just the listing part, and now I’d like to transition us into the interview, which will be more conversational.
And just to kind of get us started in talking about your experiences and your knowledge of this topic, uhm if you wouldn’t mind just giving us a brief background related to how you became involved with hoarding disorder and what your professional interactions with hoarders are.
Interviewee: Ok.
uh, let me see- so I work in the UNIVERSITY  OCD intensive treatment program.
So, we encounter hoarders in that program, and in the early days when we were looking at our outcome data, we noticed that hoarders, which were usually lumped into the- under the heading of OCD, hoarders were really making our data look bad; so we decided to look at hoarders separately.
And so, then we started getting into more research on hoarders, trying to look at them and see what was different about hoarders and why they didn’t respond as well to the typical treatment for OCD.
Uhm, so I started doing that.
And also started getting into some of the brain imaging studies with [NAME] , who’s now in San Diego.
So-
Interviewer 1: And what is your educational background?
How did you come to work at the center?
Interviewee: Uh, so I’m a nurse and a marriage and family therapist.
And back in the day I was a research associate as well.
I’m no longer a research associate.
Now my work is-
Interviewer 1: Do you see patients clinically?
Interviewee: Yeah, now my work with hoarders is mostly clinical, not research based.
Interviewer 1: And how long has it been that you’ve worked with these patients specifically?
Interviewee: Oh my gosh, probably since the early 90’s.
Interviewer 1: Ok, well thank you.
Uh, Interviewer 2 do you want to take the next question?
Interviewer 2: Yeah, so uh the next question that we want to ask you is if you can talk to us about what the most important differences are between normal saving behavior, like collecting perhaps, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think people who save things as a collection are usually able to take care of their collection.
So they organize it in a very methodical way that preserves that collection.
But people with hoarding, well first of all, collect anything and everything, but they can’t organize it, they can’t-- if they collect stamps, their stamps would be just kind of thrown willy-nilly all throughout the house in no particular order.
Uhm people who collect tend to be able to organize things and keep them in a space that preserves them, whereas people with hoarding would not be able to do that.
Interviewer 2: Ok.
Ok. And can you talk to us a little bit about the demographics of the typical hoarding patients that you would see?
What do they look like?
Interviewee: Uhm, gosh.
I think most of the patients that we see, slightly more women than men, usually are older demographic- but not always; so older would be late 40’s and up.
But we do see a few younger people who, you know, just left college and hoarding is a problem, but it doesn’t manifest so much in excessive stuff, it manifests more in severe executive functioning stuff, with a little bit of emphasis on stuff.
I don’t know, is that too broad?
Uh what else?
Interviewer 2: No not at all-
Interviewee: Uh, usually not married.
Usually single, typically, but not always.