Interviewer: Mhm. That makes sense.
Well I know that we are kind of at the end of the time that we allotted for this interview and I really appreciate your time and I want to be respectful of it.
Uhm Interviewer 2 do you want to ask maybe one or two last questions?
I know we don’t have much time left.
Interviewer: Yeah, we only have a couple questions left and I think we actually went through a decent number of them in our conversation earlier so in describing the patients that will come into your office for treatment, how long would they say that the hoarding behavior has been going on before you see them?
Interviewee: Its usually been decades.
Usually they’ve been able to identify it- the majority have been able to identify it- from when they first left home, and some of them even before that.
There’s a teensy-weensy group- a very small group of people- that will come in who describe late on-set hoarding where its developed in their fifties or sixties, but that’s a very rare group.
Uhm and sometimes we see young people come in and they come in with OCD and with further assessment we realize that they not only have OCD, but they have early stages of hoarding disorder, and the only reason why the hoarding disorder hasn’t gotten out of control is because they still live with their family.
Interviewer: Mhm.
Ok. Interviewee: So they’ve become, kind of, newer hoarders.
Interviewer: Ok.
And you know, speaking of family, you said family and friends will often play a role in the patient coming in and identifying that something is wrong, or something is going on that needs treatment, and so just curious as to what relatives do you find are most often involved in that process with a patient?
Interviewee: Uh, in this program its usually extended family, not direct family.
So it will be brothers and sisters, daughters and sons, rather than and husbands and wives.
Most of the people that we see for hoarding here are actually single or divorced, which is rather telling.
Interviewer: Definitely.
Well I think with that, that’s just about everything we wanted to ask you.
We want to be really respectful of your time, so we just wanted to thank you so much for talking to us and giving us a lot of those great answers to the questions that we have.
We really appreciate it.
Interviewee: Oh, you are very welcome.
You guys are doing great work.
Interviewer: Thank you
Interviewer: Thank you, and we appreciate your insights.
Could I just jump in at the very end and say that one of the things we ask people to do is to think up other people, after having done the interview, that they think we should talk to?
So, does anyone come to mind that you think we should definitely make sure we try to speak to for this project?
Interviewee: You might have already talked to them because they’re already on the INAUDIBLE, but I would recommend NAME and NAME at UNIVERSITY
CROSS_TALK
And obviously , but I’m sure you’ve already talked to NAME.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Well we appreciate, again your time and thank you so much for the answers.
And so were going to continue interviewing clinicians and researchers and then transfer to hoarders and then we’ll follow up at that conclusion to let everyone know what we have found and what we plan to do.
So, thank you.
Interviewee: Ok, well good luck!
Interviewer: Thank you, take care.
Interviewee: Bye.
Interviewer: Bye.