Interviewer: Ok. So, I’m going to read you the first one and then I just want to know about your thought process in terms of how you apply it to individual patients.
So, the first one that were interested in is “Persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions, regardless of their actual value.”
And so, we were kind of wondering about the process of evaluation for hoarding disorder and how you look at, you know, the possessions that a person has accumulated and determine value, and whether it’s appropriate or not.
Interviewee: Mhm.
If I’m understanding the question correctly, I usually would start by asking people what kinds of things they tend to collect, their usual response is “everything,” so I kind of have to break it down.
And then just asking over and over again “What would happen if you didn’t have this stuff?” “Are you afraid if you didn’t have this?” “What would happen if you lost this stuff?” Or “What would happen if you couldn’t find it?” Uhm just asking the same question in a million different ways, just to really see what their response would be.
Interviewer: And what’s the response of a typical patient with hoarding disorder to that question?
Interviewee: “It’s important,” “It’s valuable,” “I’ll need it later…”
CROSS_TALK
Interviewer: INAUDIBLE so they can separate it from obsessive compulsive disorder where they might be more afraid that there will be some consequences or uhm is that why the purpose of that question?
Interviewee: I think yes, and, you know, some people with Obsessive Compulsive disorder might throw things away, but they’re going to save something like-- you know they throw it away because its contaminated, or they might say they’re going to keep it because they can’t touch it because its contaminated, or they keep it because their rituals prevent them touching it- like they can’t take the trash out because they can’t touch the trash.
So, there will be other reasons why they’re accumulating the stuff, but they will be very clear that they don’t really want it, it’s just that they can’t, for some reason or another, get rid of it.
Whereas someone with hoarding is actively trying to keep hold if it.
Interviewer: Ok.
So, for you, this criteria kind of- it gets at this question of whether people are valuing their items in an appropriate way.
And that, for you, is kind of very a key distinguishing factor for distinguishing hoarding from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder INAUDIBLE.
Interviewee: Right!
Well some people don’t throw things away because they’re afraid that there’s something in it.
But they can’t articulate what it is that’s in this bag, or in this envelope or in this pizza box, and then it’s a fine line- is this hoarding or is this OCD?
Because it’s a fear that they’re throwing something of value away- which, that’s what a lot of hoarders say- but that has a much more OCD flavor, in that they have to check everything a hundred times- they can get rid of it, but they spend 20 minutes checking the pizza box to see if there’s something in it; so, then it’s got a slightly different flavor.