Interviewer: Ok. So another thing we wanted to ask you about, in the literature there’s been a breakdown of insight into different constructs that may be more or less prevalent or might be confused for insight with relation to individuals with hoarding disorder.
So we were wondering how prevalent you find these different constructs in your patients?
So one of them is defensiveness, another is anosognosia or that lack of ability to perceive that your illness as a problem like we were talking about, overvalued ideation which is the unreasonable belief in the value of your items, and indifference.
Do you see any of those more or less commonly?
Interviewee: No, I think we see them all.
I’m not sure about the indifference, I would maybe argue that sometimes people with hoarding give the impression of indifference, but they’re certainly not indifferent by any stretch.
But I’m not sure if we would treat it differently.
We might have to work more slowly with, you know, those people that have poorer insight or more overvalued ideations than others, but I think the treatment model itself would stay the same.
Interviewer: Ok.
And you see the other three about equally in the population that you work with?
Interviewee: Yes, yes, I think so.
I’m trying to think.
Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: Ok.
So, for the next section of the interview, we’re just going to ask you to talk through some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder might have for their behavior.
I know we had generated a list at the beginning of the interview, but just to get you thinking about them again, wed like to ask you to think through some of the questions from the adapted version of the Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale.
And to think about how, in your experience, your patients would respond to the question.
Uhm so for the first question, how do you think your patients would respond to “What do you think has caused you to have these behaviors, and do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?”
Interviewee: Right.
Uh, gosh I think that again, there’s that range, in terms of why they think they have hoarding.
Uhm a lot of them will argue that they were taught to be frugal, mom taught them to never throw anything away, that kind of thing.
A lot of them have a big investment in that whole creative thing, so they’ll say that they keep things because one day their going to write a biography about themselves and they need all these things to remind them of the time they went to the movie theatre with a friend 10 years ago or something like that; so, there’s that creative aspect.