Christian: Ok. Ok. Are there any situations then, where you’ve had to help patients try to gain insight or go through that with them?
Interviewee: I mean, we’ve definitely tried to improve on their insight, for sure. But by the time they come to us, they have some awareness that this is an issue, some awareness that they need to do something about it. Oftentimes people with hoarding will admit that they have a problem with clutter and too much stuff, but they’re often blaming other people for it. You know, “it’s because I’ve worked all my life and never had time to take care of it.” Or “I don’t have time to take care of it because of the kids.” Or “I don’t have time to take care of it for some other reason.” They’re always blaming outside sources so that would be a marginal insight that there’s an issue, but it’s not their fault. Uhm so it’s a huge gamut of insight, I think. 
Christian: Yeah. It seems that way. And how would you help a patient try to gain insight or move further in that path towards recognition of the problem and the relationship with the disorder? 
Interviewee: Here we do a lot of education. So, in the first week that they’re in the program- and I do this in my private practice too- I do extensive evaluation of what hoarding is and what it looks like and how it manifests on a day to day level. I do a lot of assessment and rating scales and give them feedback on those rating scales. And then talk about treatment and the rationales of treatment, what treatment looks like and what we hope it’s going to do. So, it’s kind of developing insight, but also developing motivation and having them buy into the treatment plan. 
Christian: Ok. Ok. And so, when your patients will come in with a greater degree of insight, the ones that do, how do you think that they came to that insight or that understanding on their own, of their problem?
Interviewee: I think it’s usually when, again, outside sources have been pushing them; family has kind of done an intervention or have been on their case, or a landlord has intervened and said something, or there’s been a threat-
Christian: Some kind of external source
Interviewee: Usually some external source makes them sit up and think “ok, this has gone on long enough, I have to do something about it” 
We’ve had several patients where there’s been a risk of children being taken away, and that’s obviously been a huge motivation for them. 
Uhm risk of eviction, or having to move to a new house and realizing they can’t, or a husband threatening to leave- that one doesn’t do it so much for some reason- but uhm, yeah.