Interviewer: So kind of-- if they’re acquiring more from the Home Shopping Network, that would be a different diagnosis?
That would be, maybe addictive acquiring as opposed to hoarding?
Interviewee: Well we would have to rule out compulsive shopping, not that that’s necessarily a DSM.
But our approach would still be hoarding, in that most people would think it’s pretty excessive- you don’t need 10 boxes of sauce pans.
But the way we would treat it would be a little different.
But it still might be hoarding-
CROSS_TALK
Interviewer: But do you find that its-
Interviewee: Sorry go ahead.
Interviewer: No, no, no. Go ahead.
Interviewee: No that’s okay.
Interviewer: I was just wondering if you find that home size is an issue when making determinations when people have really large houses with a lot of storage areas and storage units versus if they live in very small spaces and that might perhaps clutter more easily?
Or if you don’t really feel like that’s an issue?
Interviewee: Only a small- to a very small degree, because most people learn to live within their space.
So, people who don’t have hoarding, if they’re in a very small space, usually learn how to live within that space.
Uhm so, but to some degree it might be an issue to factor in, but I don’t think a huge degree.
Interviewer: Do you feel like the criteria that’s of- it substantially compromises the intended use.
Is there an extent in which you take into account what the patient might intend for the space?
So, for example, if the patient doesn’t cook they might not want to use their kitchen in quite the same way as somebody who is a cook, they might store things in it.
Or is that also not something that really comes up?
Interviewee: Uhm it doesn’t actually come up that much.
Because-- that’s a good question in a way, because most of the hoarders that I know actually do not cook, but they’ve never said, “I don’t use my kitchen, therefore I use it for something else.”
Uhm, so most of them, actually even though they might not cook, they want a functional kitchen, even to put their take-out food or their ready-meals or that kind of thing.
I think 99% of them, they will tell you they have every intention of cooking.
Again, that would be another project they would want to do down the line, but they’ve never gotten to.
So I’ve never had a hoarder say “I don’t need an office, because I don’t do office work, so I use this room for something else.”
I’ve not had that.
Interviewer: Mhm, so they seem to want to use it for whatever its intended purpose is, but they are not able to.
Interviewee: Yes.
Yes.