Interviewer 1: Mhm. That’s interesting.
So the very last criteria that I want to talk through with you in this way is one that says “This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and distress associated with discarding them.”
And so we were kind of wondering about how you assess the distress associated with discarding?
How do you determine how much distress with discarding is normal or abnormal?
And is it sometimes a problem for patients who perhaps have low insight into what’s going on with them- that they don’t admit to distress or they don’t think they would be distressed when they throw things away?
Interviewee: I think a lot of them- not all of them, but a lot of them- will articulate that they can throw it away or that they don’t really need the stuff, that it annoys them, that they keep it.
But the real test always- the actual test- is when you ask them to throw something away.
I think that’s the only way you can assess the level of distress; just going by their verbal report is totally unreliable.
Because when it comes down to it, no matter what they’ve said, they usually struggle to varying degrees with throwing it away.
The only test is to be with them when they’re trying to throw things away.
Interviewer 1: Ok.
That kind of transitions us into the next section of the interview, which is going to be about insight.
Interviewer 2: Yeah.
Interviewer 1: About how- Go ahead Interviewer 2.
Interviewer 2: Yeah, we just kind of want to get into, you know, literature surrounding hoarding disorder describing hoarders as often having low insight; and that might play into some of that conversation we were just having about how they might say they’re not distressed, but when they’re actually in the act of throwing things away or actually really have to think about it, they find that its more distressing than they thought.
So, kind of to start this portion of the conversation, we wanted to ask you, how do you define insight?
Interviewee: Uhm, usually when they can bring themselves into therapy and be aware that their hoarding is a problem, that its affecting their functioning, their ability to get things done, their relationship; when they’re aware they have trouble making decisions and following through on tasks.
Uhm, yes.
Interviewer 2: Ok.
Interviewee: I thinks that probably it.
Yeah.
I’m always weary of the ones that come in and say that, you know, “it’s not that I have too much stuff, I just need help organizing it.”
And then I assess that their insight is probably not quite as good.
Or if they come in and say, “I don’t have a problem at all, but my husband brought me in.”
Or “the court said I have to be here.”
Interviewer 2: Ok.
So what would you find that you see in your practice?
Do the majority of patients come in with that insight already?
Or is that a process that you take patients through?
Interviewee: Uhm, in the INAUDIBLE that I work in, most patients come in with some awareness that they have a problem, and they come in with a readiness to work on it, but that’s the nature of the situations that I work in.
So we wouldn’t accept someone into the UNIVERSITY program unless they were here on their own volition, just because if they were here against their will, they’re not going to be able to do the work that’s required of them.