Some of them will attribute the hoarding to a trauma in their life.
And again, some of them will really downplay it and say that it’s not really that big a deal and they just need time to take care of it, but you know its been 10, 20, 30 years and they still haven’t found the time to deal with it.
A lot of them will use the excuse “well I’ve never had the time to take care of it.”
And in terms of this mental health problem, I think there’s been kind of an evolution there; in early days when I first started with hoarding, a lot of people would say that this is not a mental health issue; and they’ve been much more inclined to work with a professional organizer or friends to help them clean up their stuff, but I think in recent years people have been much more on board with the idea that this is indeed a mental health issue.
They’ve kind of been more on board with that, but that’s the evolution I think over the last 8 to 10 years.
Interviewer: So its there’s of been a movement of people being more accepting that this is an actual disorder instead of just a problem of organization that they can cope with.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: The other one we’d like you to think through how your patents would respond is “How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding them?” What do you think your patients would say in response to that?
Interviewee: Again, a range.
But again, what we’d come up with is ‘I need to keep it because it’ll come in useful, I’ll need it for later on, sentimental reasons, creativity reasons, being prepared reasons.’
Interviewer: So most of your patients seem very convinced that they actually need to keep the things.
Is there also that element that something bad will come of discarding it or something bad will happen if they throw it away?
Interviewee: Oh probably.
‘That they’ll be audited by the tax man,’ is a very common one; someone else will be mad at them, you know, “If I throw this book away my husband will be mad at me because he might want it,” so they like to put that on other people too; or you know “If I get rid of it, I wont have it down the line and it will be catastrophic if I don’t have this particular Tupperware box;” or “it’s a feeling of catastrophe for not having it,” is a common one- kind of exaggerated consequences of not having something that they needed.
Interviewer: And kind of in your opinion or your experience, do you think these explanations are post hoc reasons to justify this underlying pathological need or do you think that they’re in some sense real reasons?
Which do you think maybe came first, the urge to save or the reason for saving?
Interviewee: Gosh I never really thought of it like that.
That’s a good question.
You know I think that, just at the top of my head, I think I’d be more inclined to think that they save the stuff and then come up with the rationale, I think.
Uhm, but I’m not entirely sure.
But that makes more sense, I think they do, I think they’re keeping it and keeping it and they’re looking at it and keeping this rationale that kind of makes sense for them.