Interviewer: Ok. And also kind of along those lines, so for healthy individuals there’s kind of a degree in variance in the free space that they like in their home.
So for example, some people might prefer to have a clear desk, while other people like to have things out and ready to go and don’t mind it being that cluttered.
Do you think that there’s perhaps a way that hoarding disorder is related to this or could be an extension of this variance that surpasses the officially acceptable threshold?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think when it moves from being functional to non-functional.
So some people like a more cluttered desk with everything to hand, but when that desk is so cluttered that they can’t find the things that they need to find and the things that they need to do at the desk, then it’s starting to kind of tip over onto a more non-functional or pathologic issue.
Interviewer: Mhm, mhm.
And do you find with your patients that they kind of enjoy their cluttered spaces?
That they like the sense of being surrounded by objects, like kind of feeling that closed in, cave-like environment?
Or do you find like that’s not really a part of it, that it’s just as a byproduct of the saving?
Interviewee: Right.
I don’t know if it’s like is the right word- comfortable and safe.
Uhm, yes.
I would agree that clutter and that kind of closed-in, what we would call claustrophobic feeling, makes them feel safe and secure; and when it starts to be cleared out, they definitely go through a very difficult period of getting used to that openness and it makes them feel extremely vulnerable.
And sometimes they might say they like the cluttered space, but I think its more they like the safe feeling, because when they are in another environment, either in someone else’s home or if they’re in a hotel room or something like that, they always say that they really love the spaciousness.
Interviewer: It’s just with their own space that they like that clutter.
Interviewee: Right, and I think its just that they like the security of feeling very- kind of like a cocoon, and they’ll do that gesture where they’ll wrap their arms around their body where they’re kind of enveloped, and that feels secure to them- they like that.