Rebecca: So that would kind of imply to me- and correct me if I’m wrong just to talk through it- that hoarding is less about having, you know, perhaps thoughts that are incorrect than having this urge, which then the thoughts kind of cover up or justify. Does that seem right to you? Does that seem like as opposed to them having beliefs that are out of touch with reality, their beliefs are kind of secondary to their urge. And I don’t know, I’m just trying to think through the question with you. 
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Hmm, I’ve never thought of it like this. 
[cross talk] 
Rebecca: We’re not holding you to it, just kind of speculate, you know? 
Interviewee: Yeah. I think that rationale kind of makes sense. That there’s that unquestioning need to have this thing- or not throw it away- because it makes them uncomfortable, and then they come up with a rationale that they can sit with for it. 
Rebecca: Ok. That makes sense. And do you think that in any sense there are cultural forces that maybe associate value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions that might play a role in this disorder or do you think those are separating ideas? 
Interviewee: I mean not more than what we’ve talked about, with the cultural-- the identity of being frugal or creative or respectful of other people- you know, when people with hoarding keep things belonging to their deceased mother or their father, that kind of thing. So, there’s those kind of cultural things- those are cultural things that we value but… I don’t know am I answering that question? Is that what you mean? 
Rebecca: Yeah you are. The question was about that and also to kind of think about whether people might want to have more things because their value is associated with people who have a lot of things, but that sounds like you’re saying it’s not related in quite that way. 
Interviewee: No, I think it’s more about their identity. A lot of the stuff they keep is critical to how they define themselves. I see a lot of hoarders who are very, you know, if they’re working, imagine themselves in a very creative environment like uh a film producer or a screen writer- well we’re in L.A. anyway but-- people who can make quilts out of old ties or people who have worked in the past will save every single memo and dossier and folder that’s associated with their work, because their work defines them as who they were. So I think most of the stuff that they keep, its about defining and validating themselves. 
I worked with an older gentleman, he used to be a clown in the circus, and everything he kept was all about that. It was all about toys, you know, broken down toys from children because his job was to make children happy. It was all the clown suits, ticket stubs to the circus, it was everything that defined who he was, and I think that’s true of most people with hoarding; they keep stuff that validates them as a person.