Interviewer: And kind of maybe to go along with that idea: when you meet a patient who is alleged to have very low insight, how do you help that patient try to gain insight or what do you say to them to help them to understand what’s going on with their behavior as being problematic?
Interviewee: Well largely I approach it using a motivational interviewing approach; and the idea there is to begin where the patient is.
So what I wanna do is, I wanna find out what kind of value the person puts on their thing.
So I want to know what they have collected, and I want them to tell me what these things mean to them, and I want to try to appreciate it in the same way they do.
So that what I’m doing is I’m trying to put myself in their shoes and see how this object can be valuable.
And, in that way, begin to help them figure out how to evaluate the value of possession.
One of the things that I have observed and it’s come out in a variety of ways and it just hits it out in some of the data that I’ve got is that when people with hoarding disorder acquire something, it goes into the home and then it is untouched after that.
There is little or no interaction with possessions once they come into the home.
And I think this is part of the key to understanding the disorder.
That for most of us, we process our possessions when they come into the home, we interact with them, and that interaction with our objects leads us to figure out how valuable they are.
But for people with hoarding disorder, they establish that value in the acquisition and once it comes into the home, the there’s no processing that goes on with that object so there is no reevaluation of its value.
And so what I want to do is I want to start asking them about this possession that’s in front of them and what it means to them.
And so I’m not trying to get them to throw this possession away, my purpose is in understanding the value of possessions and not them making a decision about whether to throw it away or not.
And so in that way, the motivation here is sort of down the road.
The real purpose here is to get them to start look at and evaluating the possession and then get to the point where we start talking about the benefits of having that possession and the costs of having that possession.
And that…apply the life context to that decision: so what does it mean to have this possession?
And what does this possession allow you to do?
And what does this possession prevent you from doing?
And in that way trying to establish the importance of change because what we want to focus on is the person’s values in life and what they value most.
And what we find when we’ve done that in treatment, it’s part of our treatment package, is they value things like everybody else does, family, friends, religion, so forth.
And yet the clutter that they have, the difficulty discarding, get in the way of achieving those values or goals.
And so this processing, part of the processing is to understand how this thing is valuable to them and how it relates to their life goals and their life’s values.
And so that’s the way I approach the motivation issue.