Interviewee: But, what happens when you are… when you have tried and failed at something?
You consider yourself a failure.
You can do some sort of mental protective activities, and one of them is to define the problem away.
And so, I can define this as just the way I live, and maybe the way I want to live.
And so, if that’s the case, they’re not likely to define it as a mental problem, and they’re not likely to talk about it having a biological cause.
It’s just the way they are.
But if they think of it as a mental problem, then what’s the easiest way of thinking about it?
Well, it’s not my character, it’s some sort of disease.
So, I think the explanation is kind of tied up with where they’re at with respect to insight.
Interviewer: Yeah, that’s interesting.
And, do you… have you found or do you have any speculation as to which group would be easier to treat, of those two groups?
Interviewee: Well, I think the treatment starts in a different place.
If you understand the disease, I think you start a little farther along in the process.
If you are still struggling with recognition and, you know, are defensive about it, then I think you have to start in a different place, and get them to focus on what the impact this behavior has on my life.
And only after doing that for a while can you really see that, this is something I need to do something about.
Interviewer: Ok.
And in… so it’s almost along a spectrum where considering it as a character trait may be kind of a little further behind the individual who’s thinking of it as a biological disorder.
Interviewee: Right, right.
Interviewer: Do you feel like in the path to treatment every individual has to come to the point where they feel that it’s a biological disorder?
Can there be INAUDIBLE that they just need to INAUDIBLE.
Interviewee: No, no, I think… Yeah, I think it can be looked at easily, the problem-solving exercise, that “here’s the problem I’ve got, I’ve got to solve it.”
And you don’t really need to go into why.
So, I think it helps people to think of it as biological in the sense that they don’t feel blamed by it, they don’t feel maybe as much shame, but I don’t know if that’s true for everyone but for a lot of people, I think.
And a lot of people come into treatment and want to know why, and of course we don’t have a very good answer to that.
And the biological one is an easy one to say because it’s sort of like a black box explanation, it doesn’t really say anything, you know?
Interviewer: Yeah.