Interviewer: Ok. And can you tell us what your educational background is?
Interviewee: I have a PhD in clinical psychology.
Interviewer: And so do you see patients with hoarding disorder clinically as well as conducting research?
Interviewee: I only see patients clinically in connection with a research study or as, in a supervisory capacity at a supervised therapist, at a local mental health center that has an OCD center where we treat hoarding.
So I don’t see the individual patients outside the context of some kind of research project other than that supervision.
Interviewer: Ok.
NAME  would you like to take over with the…
Interviewer: Yeah sure.
Hi again, kind of to echo what NAME  said at the start of this call, we have both really enjoyed reading your work.
And just to add to his little background, the next question of the interview: we’re trying to kind of understand the state of kind of, kind of a stratise on hoarding disorder right now to kind of see where the consensus is and on the different practitioners and how different people think about hoarding disorder as a kind of, um, you know, is becoming more recognized and more standardized as a disorder.
And then our goal is to see how hoarders themselves understand the disorder in order to understand, perhaps, disjunct between patient understanding and physician understanding in order to try to address problems with insight, or low insight, in patient population.
Some of these questions might be a little weird, but it might be helpful to think that, or to know for you that we’re going to ask patients these same questions and then the idea is to compare.
So, with that little disclaimer, we would just like to kind of start off pretty broadly by asking you what the most important differences are between normal saving behavior, such as collecting, and hoarding disorder in your mind?
Interviewee: Ok.
The basic difference between normal collecting and hoarding, uh, there are a couple.
First is the variety of possessions that are collected.
In normal collecting, the objects or possessions typically have a theme and those…it’s a restricted number of themes that collectors imploy.
In hoarding disorder, there are…there may be themes but there are multiple themes.
And for many people with hoarding disorder, there aren’t, um, there aren’t themes at all, it sort of applies to almost everything that comes into the person’s possession.
The narrowness of the category of objects that are saved is one dimension on which these things differ.
The other is the way in which the objects are collected.
In collecting behavior, it is more planful and targeted.
In hoarding disorder, the collection is more impulsive.
There is also a difference in volume that people with hoarding disorder, for the most part, have much more volume of possessions than people who collect.
Um, let’s see…related to that, that it’s the way in which the objects are displayed different.
In collecting, those objects are displayed in an organized fashion and there is an interest in displaying objects for other people to see and admire.
In hoarding disorder, the objects are typically arrayed in what appears to be a confused and unorganized manner, and there is typically very little interest.
In fact, maybe just the opposite.
Very little interest in allowing other people to see those objects.
So those are the major differences.