Interviewer2: The first one we have is “Persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value” and we’re curious about you make the determination of value for individuals and their possessions and what makes the value judgement someone with hoarding disorders makes inappropriate?
Interviewee: Ok, yeah.
I, um, that phrase was inserted for a specific reason, and the reason had to do with the diagnostic criteria for obsessive compulsive personality disorder where the criteria there says that a person is unable, or has difficulty discarding possessions that are worthless or limited value, something like that.
And so the stereotype for one that that phrase was designed to get at was that hoarding involves the saving of worthless and worn out things.
And it’s clear in hoarding disorder, people with hoarding disorder save everything.
Now some of it may appear to other people to be worthless and worn out but that’s not always the case.
There are cases of people with hoarding whose homes are filled with brand new things, so it’s clear that it’s not just worthless and worn out things, so that’s the reason that phrase went in there.
So to say regardless of their actual value means that they save virtually anything.
And that’s the way I interpret the phrase.
The evaluation of possessions is an excessive evaluation of all possessions.
Interviewer2: Ok.
The next one we want to ask you about is…
Interviewer1: Can I just ask a quick follow up?
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Go ahead.
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer1: Just wondering in terms of evaluation of possessions, whether you think that there’s an important distinction to be made in the way that patients, different patients evaluate possessions.
Are we talking about an inability to accurately distinguish monetary value?
Are we talking about aesthetic value, so patients who find [INAUDIBLE]  so kind of describe patients who find aesthetic value in things that you wouldn’t normally find aesthetic value?
Or perhaps emotional value?
And how you, how this criteria is meant just in terms of which of those ideas of value is meant by this criteria or all of them?
Interviewee: All of them.
All of them.
I think it’s not more specific than it is because there’s such a wide range, and there’s some people who ascribe more aesthetic kinds of evaluation that are problematic.
Other people have more sentimental and so forth.
But my experience in hoarding cases is that for the most part, people with hoarding apply all those types of evaluations more excessively than other people do.
Interviewer1: So it’s less about looking at the specific object and saying, you know, this is an inappropriate evaluation and it’s more looking at them doing that with all objects?
Or with…
Interviewee: With all objects.
Interviewer1: …Oh well they say it’s [INAUDIBLE] .
It’s more saying all these objects that they have they value equally.
You know, you can’t value everything as valuable.
Interviewee: I’m not quite sure I follow what you said but I… what my experience is that they value all objects and have great difficulty distinguishing the importance of possessions.
So everything is compelling, which is a quote from one of my early clients.
Everything is compelling, so everything gets assigned kind of an equal level of importance and it’s all necessary to save.