Interviewee: Yeah. Well, the other thing that’s important there related to that, not so much that it’s difficult, but... is the fact that the other pieces of this puzzle point to the possibility that what we’re looking at here is a form of giftedness.
And that giftedness has to do with, number one, the ability to see the beauty in the physical world and appreciate the beauty in the physical world.
Lots of collecting behaviors are associated with aesthetically pleasing objects and not wanting to waste that aesthetic in that object.
And so, one of the most frequent things people collect are things that are designed for some kind of arts and crafts project.
And the difficulty is people see the potential for the aesthetic value of an object and they collect it with the intention of producing something, some kind of work of art or craft of some kind.
But they don’t have the organizational skills to really get that done, and so in some ways it’s an aesthetic gone awry.
And the other piece of the giftedness is this ability to make associations with objects.
So, if I see a bottle cap without a bottle my only association is trash and how do I get rid of it, but people with hoarding problems will see the shape and the color and the texture and think about things they could do to bring out those colors and make that even more aesthetically pleasing.
So, it’s almost as though… one of the people in our book Stuff described his brain as a tree with too many branches that every thought leads somewhere and leads him down a different path and there are so many branches that he gets lost.
And so, it’s a combination of maybe an intense form of intelligence together with sort of an aesthetic giftedness that can’t be controlled.
It can’t be corralled somehow to make it workable.
Interviewer 2: Wow.
Interviewee: I’m not sure that that answered your question, but INAUDIBLE
Interviewer 1: No, I think it was definitely one of the more interesting concepts that you mentioned in your book, Stuff.
Both NAME and I have read it and I think for me that was one of the most interesting things about it, because in the literature it’s not really discussed, the positive aspects of this behavior or this illness.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
I think here is a place to begin talking about this that would encourage people with this problem to come forward, because one of the things they describe is this feeling of being disrespected.
And I think that has a lot to do with not coming forward to try to work on this problem or admit this problem.
But if we respect them for what they are good at, then they are likely to be able to come forward a little more readily to say, “Well, what are the downsides of this?” And so, I think that may be a place, that may be a hook to get at this issue of why people may be reluctant to come in for treatment, especially before they get to be 50 or 60 years old, which is when we, most of the time, see people coming in after decades of doing this.