Interviewer 1: Mhm. Another question on the BABS that we kind of wanted you to think through how your patients might respond is, “How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that something bad will come of discarding them?”
Interviewee: I think that’s… if it’s worded correctly, I think patients will say that they are convinced.
And a large number of objects collected and saved by people with hoarding disorder, they want to save because of this personal, emotional connection.
There are a lot of people with hoarding disorder, and these things aren’t mutually exclusive, but a lot of people with hoarding disorder keep things they don’t want, and they do that because they can’t get rid of them appropriately.
They have to find a good home for it, they have to make sure it’s not wasted, they have to make sure it’s not harmed, and those things require so much effort that they simply don’t have time to process all the stuff they have to get rid of things.
And so, they would say they need to save these things, but not because the necessarily want them but because they have to make sure they’re not wasted in some way.
So, I think that’s a subtle part of this that… it depends on how that question gets interpreted by the person being asked.
Interviewer 1: Well, something that we’re kind of trying to do… these questions have been kind of challenging, more challenging for us to develop because the Brown Assessment of Beliefs is much more geared towards Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and INAUDIBLE.
Interviewee: Right, right.
We struggled with that for a number of years trying to figure out a way of asking questions that would elicit insight, and it’s not easy.
Interviewer 2: And so, I think that’s part of the project that we’re also interested in.
I guess, what did you come to with that?
How do get an insight through these kinds of measures?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Well, the other complication for this, with respect to that question, is if you’re asking people about their reasons for saving things, is that a question of insight or is that the disorder itself?
And I think that’s an important question because the disorder involves these reasons for saving and their beliefs about these reasons for saving, so if they have strong beliefs about saving something for sentimental reasons, is that a question of insight or is that a question of the severity of the disorder?
Interviewer 2: Yeah.
So how have you, kind of, come to deal with this problem?
Interviewee: Well, if you want to talk about insight, I think for hoarding you want to go back to its original definition.
You want to talk about the belief about whether a disorder exists, a belief about whether this is interfering with my ability to live.
That’s probably the place to go with defining insight and hoarding, because otherwise you get all mixed up with this process, and if you define the belief about possessions and the strength of those beliefs as insight, then what’s the disorder?
Interviewer 2: Mhm.
And have you developed, kind of, good questions for asking people with this disorder that you feel reliably and consistently get at this?
Because I know last time we had talked about how insight can be kind of a shifting target.
INAUDIBLE