Interviewee: Oh yeah, homeowner’s associations certainly are, health departments, elder service agencies, child and family services, animal control, they all have stories, and they all have cases.
I think health departments have a lot of them.
Elder services agencies have lots of them.
I doubt there’s an elder service agency across the country that hasn’t had multiple cases, hoarding cases, that they deemed some of their most difficult to deal with.
Interviewer 1: I kind of wanted to hop in and ask you a question or two about something that you mentioned earlier.
So, when you were describing the Buried in Treasures and really, kind of, marketed as a workshop as opposed to treatment versus therapy, is that because of the ideas about shame that you’d mentioned earlier?
And, INAUDIBLE.
Interviewee: In part.
Yeah, in part it is, but also because when we started, the reason we started these workshops was because there were very few therapists who know how to treat it, and this workshop was designed to be run by anyone.
And so, the first set of workshops was run by my students, and these were not graduate students, these were undergraduate students, and then we moved from there to having them run by a peer, that is someone with lived experience hoarding.
So, that was the idea behind these workshops, to make them affordable and increase accessibility to some kind of intervention.
Interviewer 1: Ok.
Ok, and I also wanted to… I’m not even really positive how to phrase this question, but something throughout the interviews and through our conversation with you that I feel like is continually resurfacing that I think is very interesting about this disorder is how external it is in the sense that a lot of it comes down to individuals who are interacting with this person in terms of making them aware of the disorder, in terms of helping them to get into treatment.
Do you feel like that’s something that’s unique to hoarding disorder or more salient here than in other psychiatric disorders?
Interviewee: Well I think it might be more salient for people who are close to the individual because other disorders – anxiety, depression, and so forth – a lot of the behaviors can be hidden, a lot of the experiences can be hidden, but in hoarding disorder, for anyone who is in that person’s living environment, it can’t be hidden, and so I think that’s one of the reasons why.
And definitely because this has an impact on everyone around the person, so other people living in the home, if the person lived in an apartment other people living in the apartment building, or in the condo, or even in the community, gets affected by this.
And so, this is more than a mental health problem, this is a societal problem, because it has implications for lots of different parts of society.
And that’s why, you know, in this disorder we have the health department involved, we have elder service agencies involved, child and family services, the fire department, animal control, all these agencies that have responsibilities to their community have a stake in hoarding, and that’s not the case with other mental health disorders.
So, I think that’s why it looks that way.