Interviewee: Well, I think for the most part, what happens is that people go through long periods of time where they are criticized by family members, pressured by family members, and then maybe the authorities get involved and so they… One of the ways that people get in around here is when we run, we have a community forum on collecting and clutter and we make announcements about a very intensive workshop. It’s not therapy, it’s kind of a workshop, it’s kind of half a support group and half a self-help group, and that’s when people start getting more involved because it doesn’t feel like they’re getting into therapy, but then eventually that leads them to pursue more.
Interviewer 2: And how long would you say that this behavior has been going on, typically, before they get to that point? 
Interviewee: Usually decades. 
Interviewer 2: And so, to kind of build off that, do you have any sense of hoarding over kind of a lifespan or is it something that has been going on for the person’s whole life? Did it start when they were a child or young adult or develop later in life?
Interviewee: Well, the research we’ve done on it suggests it starts fairly early, about somewhere in between 10 and 20 years old, and although it’s not serious then, the behaviors begin then. And they start getting serious a couple of decades later. And that once they move along that trajectory, that lifespan, they get more and more serious, and there are relatively few cases for whom that process reverses, relatively few cases who, on their own, get better.
Interviewer 2: And is your sense, again, [INAUDIBLE 24:09]. Is it your sense that it’s a progressive disorder in the sense that the behaviors worsen or is it a progressive disorder in the sense that they accumulate more and more stuff and so it appears to be worse over time because they have more later?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s a good question. I don’t know the answer to that. Clearly, those things are confounded. As time goes by they get more and more stuff. Does the saving behavior get more extreme or more rigid? That I don’t know. I think… I have seen cases where the acquisition slows down, and so it’s an attempt by the person to stop, an attempt by the person to try to do something about it, but they do it by controlling the acquisition and not increasing the discarding. I guess I don’t really have a good sense of what an answer to that question might be.
Interviewer 2: And in terms of family and friends kind of playing a role in arriving at, you know, the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, do you have a sense of which family and friends are most often involved and how that goes?
Interviewee: Usually it’s adult children of the individual, and sometimes it’s a sibling, sometimes it’s a spouse, but the majority of the cases I’ve seen where the family gets involved it’s the adult children of an elderly person who’s been doing it for many years and now may have had some kind of health setback and is going to have more trouble living in an environment that is heavily cluttered.
Interviewer 2: And do you feel that employees of institutions or states are frequently or infrequently involved with these cases or is it pretty rare, is it common? Landlords, police officers, you know, homeowner’s associations, those kinds of people.