Interviewer: Right, okay.
So that brings us to the next thing I wanted to ask you.
So as part of this interview we’re using the different kind of breakdown of the concept of insight that I think is from one of your papers.
So defensiveness as you already mentioned and anosognosia, overvalued ideation, indifference.
And we just kind of wanted to talk with you about your experience with people with this disorder and how… we’ve already talked about anosognosia and how that variation is very prevalent in the patients that you see and so when we talk about a problem of insight, do patients normally have, is it just overvalued ideation, to what is the extent of defensiveness or indifference?
And does the idea of indifference kind of… something that we heard from previous interviews is that when patients are indifferent, it can be difficult to distinguish hoarding disorder from disorders like depression where they’re simply indifferent to their surroundings or they don’t throw things away because they don’t care, and I wonder if you can talk through whether, kind of, insight.
Interviewee: Um I’m not quite sure I fully understood that.
Hardly I think that the difference, the insight related things related to defensiveness and coping, I think.
Um, when I see someone saying they don’t have a problem, most often it is when you work with agencies that have a lot of contact with people with hoarding problems – health departments, INAUDIBLE  agencies, so forth.
Their view of people with hoarding disorder typically is that most of them don’t have insight, but in part that’s because of who is asking the question and the purpose behind the question.
So part of the insight problem has to do with the context in which the interview occurs and what information is used to make the decision.
So if I go to someone’s home and they know I’m there because there’s some suspicion that there’s something wrong with them or the way they live, they are likely to be more defensive and deny a problem than if I’m talking to someone and asking them about what possessions they have that are valuable and the extent to which, the cost of having those possessions.
I’m not quite sure if that answers your question, but I think it speaks to this issue of insight and what it means because we treat insight as though it is a stable characteristic.
And I think in hoarding, it’s not necessarily stable and that it’s under the influence of the context in which the interaction is taking place between two people and that context has a lot to do with whether someone will deny they have a problem or admit that they have a problem.
And an example: I went on a heavy duty cleaning once with a crew in New York City with a case, a hoarding case, where the individual had been cleaned out five or six times before, so this is a repeat.
And so everyone involved knew this individual and believed that this individual had no insight into this.
So I spent the day there, and much of the day I spent talking with the individual as the cleaning was going on.
Most of the time he was quite distressed trying to control the workers and telling them what to throw away, what not to throw away.
And so for the whole day, he was INAUDIBLE  the fact that they were doing this, that this was horrible, they shouldn’t be doing this, they didn’t have the right to be doing this, but yet there was a period of time about ten minutes long during the day where, as we discussed this in a little more, I don’t know if I would call it objective, but a little dispassionate way he did admit.
He said to me that “yeah I know I keep too many things and I know this is a problem for my family and I try to control it in certain ways.”
He described those ways, his family tried to help him control it but they haven’t been able to.
And then a few minutes later he was back to arguing with the crew about not throwing things away.
So this was the case where, the one case where I saw very little insight for most of the day, but yet there was a period of time where this gentleman did have insight, and he was reflective and understood there’s something wrong.