Interviewer1: And one thing that we’ve heard from clinicians when we started doing these interviews is around the concept of insight is “well my patients already have insight when they seek treatment and so, you know, this isn’t something that I really go through with patients so much because, you know, they have to have some insight in order to get to my office.”
And so I’m wondering if you can talk about how this process can occur for patients who are kind of on their own, when they don’t have someone helping them through it.
How do patients come to this realization themselves sometimes or not?
Interviewee: You mean the realization that I have a problem?
Interviewer1: Mmhmm.
Yeah.
The realization that they have a disorder that might need treatment.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think largely it’s family and friends and criticism they receive and the depression they experience and the social isolation that comes along with the lifestyle.
Because if you got a home that you don’t invite anybody over to, you got a car that’s full of stuff so you’re embarrassed to have anybody ride, your life becomes narrow and a little bit isolated because you can’t reciprocate dinner parties, or visits to people’s homes, or going places with people, and so forth because you don’t invite them over to your house.
Interviewer1: Ok.
And that kind of arises just from interacting with people and recognizing the damage it does to your things that you value on your own?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer1: Um, I want to be very respectful of your time because we’re at an hour and that’s what we asked for.
We have more questions for you and I wonder if and [NAME]  you can jump in here if you don’t think that this is right.
I don’t know what the rest of your day looks like, and you probably have an appointment or not, and we can talk about the best way to proceed, but I think it would be very helpful for us to talk to again at some point as we kind of done more and more of these clinician interviews and to have you kind of talk through what we find and to hear your thoughts on kind of our evolving understanding of this as we move through the interviews.
So depending on what, you know, if you’re able to continue and answer the rest of the questions now or even kind of if you do have time, I think we would be really well suited for, if you’re open to it, talk to you again at some point and to kind of get your thoughts on our findings and to talk through some of these issues in greater detail later as we hear from more and more people.
[NAME] , what do you think about that?
Interviewer2: Well I think I’d first like to hear about your availability [NAME]  for, if we would have some more questions for you today, would you be able to…
Interviewee: Yeah.
Unfortunately, today I don’t have more time.
So I do have to go in a minute, but I would be happy to talk with you again sometime.
Interviewer2: Ok.