Rebecca: Thank you. Yeah, that was a great question.
Christian: Ok. So the next question that we wanted to talk with you about was the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, substantially compromising their intended use. So we’re curious about how you make the determination of how much stuff is too much, especially with things like home size and other people in the home may affect the degree of clutter in the space.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Here, the distinction is really whether or not the person can carry out the normal activities of daily living in that space. And that’s a clinical judgement about the extent to which the clutter prevents them from being able to do those things. So it is a clinical judgement and what the way I look at it, is the extent to which you can actually do the things you need to do in the house. So can you sit in a chair? Can you sleep in your bed? Can you eat a meal at a table? Can you cook in the kitchen? Can you open the door to you home to get out quickly if you need to? Is there enough space for emergency personnel to get a gurney in if there’s a medical emergency? Can you safely go up and down the stairs? Those are, those are the kinds of questions that I use to make that determination.
Christian: Ok. And is this, those questions that you ask, does that take into account a patient’s intended use of the space. For example, you know, if you don’t like to cook, how should you be using the kitchen? What is the appropriate use?
Interviewee: Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. And so if you have a room that’s designed as an office and it’s absolutely full but you don’t use it. You simply use it as a storage room, then that means the interpretations are a little bit different because that’s not a behavior that you’re planning to engage in or need to use. So it’s basically turning a room that’s designed for one purpose into another, and that purpose is storage. And having a storage room does not qualify as in this criteria.
Christian: Ok. We also want to ask, for healthy individuals, there’s a degree of variance in the free space that they like in their homes. For example, some people might prefer to have a clear desk while others prefer to have things out and ready to use. Do you feel like hoarding disorder could just be an extension of this variance that surpasses socially acceptable thresholds?
Interviewee: Absolutely. And I’ve been hoping that someone would take up that question at some point. I wish I had more time or I would. What is a preferred living space? Are there people who enjoy sort of cave-like spaces versus people who enjoy sort of open spaces and is that related to hoarding? I suspect that it is.