Interviewer: Mmhmm. Ok, well, so I’m going to move into the next section of the interview that kind of – the question I want to ask INAUDIBLE .
So one of the things we’re interested in is the question of insight and how to help patients get insight, what do we mean by insight.
And so to kind of follow up on what you just said in terms of patients who may or may not realize the extent to which they are experiencing distress, I just wanted to start the conversation about insight by asking first how you would define insight in this context.
Interviewee: My view of insight, I think, is that if we want to say whether or not someone has insight, we should use the more classical definition of insight, anosognosia – the understanding that I have a disorder where something’s wrong.
And I think that applies to very few cases of hoarding.
And I think the fact it demonstrates that is that there are very, very few people with hoarding disorder who feel comfortable letting someone they don’t know very well into their home because they know how that person is going to react when seeing their home.
So they know that something’s wrong, they know there’s something that they are different somehow than other people and that difference will make them viewed in an unfavorable light by other people.
And that I think is evidence that there’s some degree of insight on their part.
And I think the confusion about insight is people confuse something here and what they confuse is this, that, they’re looking at an individual who has a piece of paper with something scribbled on it that is apparently meaningless and the inability of that person to let go of that piece of paper because it represents something to them.
That…many people interpret that as an absence of insight into the importance of that piece of paper when in fact that’s not an insight problem, that’s the disorder itself.
That, that attachment to the paper is the disorder, it’s not a problem with insight into the disorder.
And I think that’s…
Interviewer: That’s a really important distinction.
Interviewee: Yeah.
And I think that’s in large part in how people get confused when talking about insight because when you’re trying to work with someone and you see them keeping something that they obviously shouldn’t keep or they don’t need to keep, people think the person has no insight but really it’s not an insight problem, that’s the disorder itself.
Interviewer: So perhaps there’s a distinction to be made between knowing that the desire to keep the paper is not normal and not something that everybody would feel and knowing that the paper is not valuable?
And that clinicians think that because the patient values a piece of paper they don’t have insight…
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: But the patient actually is aware of the fact that that behavior represents itself as that novel behavior.
Interviewee: It represents something that…
Interviewer: …they do have insight.
Interviewee: Yeah.
INAUDIBLE .
And the INAUDIBLE  really has to do with people who don’t believe this is problematic in any way.