Rebecca: That is really interesting. It’s interesting partially because in a lot of our past interviews, people have kind of written that off or said that this is not at all related to hoarding. So it’s interesting, and I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit more about how you see that in your patients or how, if you have examples of the way that people experience this differently.
Interviewee: Yeah. I think when you ask people especially about what, in what environment do they feel comfortable, you get a variety of responses. Now many people with hoarding disorder will say they’re uncomfortable at home with the clutter but, yet, many people will say I just feel comfortable around my stuff. And I had one client at one point tell me, uh, I came to her house and she said “I had such a tough week and I just want to come home and gather my treasures around me,” and so this sense of comfort and safety being surrounded by one’s possessions, I think, reflects a little bit of this tendency, potentially, this tendency to want to feel cave-like. You see this in animals. Some animals are cave-like – a dog, for instance, like to be in a kennel because they feel safe there. You see this also sometimes in autism where there’s sort of these comfort devices where people get in, they’re sort of clamped into these devices. Something similar to that I think may go on in hoarding disorder. Again, now, that’s speculative, and what I would be interested in is somebody actually doing that research.
Rebecca: Mmhmm. Thank you.
Christian: The last question that we wanted to ask related to the DSM 5 criteria was so the line goes “this difficulty is due to a perceived need to save items and distress associated with discarding them.” Well how do you determine how much distress is normal or abnormal and how does that relate to potential insight issues when a patient denies having a problem and making that determination of distress?
Interviewee: Yeah. The distress I think is related not so much to the distress someone would say when they have this disorder, but the distress if they are faced with the prospect of getting rid of something. So that even though someone with respect to insight, someone may say “I don’t have a problem and I’m not distressed by all this stuff,” but they would experience significant distress if they tried to throw something out. And so that’s the part of this question about insight and someone who denies that they have a problem. Uh, so…remind me again of the first part of that question; I answered the second part.
Christian: Yeah. Just making the determination in how much distress is normal or abnormal.
Interviewee: Oh yeah, okay. So that’s a clinical judgement, I think. But it’s a judgement that’s hard to make without discussing with the person or maybe doing experiments trying to see how difficult it is to throw something away. And so, again, it comes down to clinical judgement about how, um, how much distress warrants a diagnosis.