Interviewer 1: And, um, could you think of a specific case or a number of cases that were particularly difficult or challenging to diagnose either clinically or in research?
Because we are kind of on the border between pathological and non-pathological behavior or borderline sub-clinical.
And kind of talk through that case or cases and how you made the distinction between something that was sub-clinical or something that was not true hoarding disorder and hoarding disorder patient.
Interviewee: Well there’s two, two ways to think about that.
One is what disorder overlaps.
So, we had a hoarding case, someone who was in one of our treatment groups, one of our [INAUDIBLE]  treasure groups, and this was a woman whose home was filled with papers and a lot of trash, foods, cans, cans where the food was already eaten, and so forth.
So her home looked much like a hoarded home.
But it turns out, going to her home and talking with her about the things that were in her home, that the clutter in her home was collected because of an OCD problem and not a hoarding problem.
So she had a compulsive checking ritual where she had to read and study everything that came into the house that had any kind of writing or geometric design on it before she could throw it out.
And she abandoned that ritual, which meant that she stopped throwing things out.
So everything that came into her home that had writing or symbols or anything on it, she simply kept because that ritual’s too omorous for her to engage in, so she couldn’t let it go.
So that was a case, that without going to her home and examining the items in her home and talking with her about the items in her home, it would have been impossible to tell because she did have great difficulty throwing things away.
It would have been impossible to tell that this was OCD instead of hoarding disorder.
On the other hand, we’ve had people… and the other kind, I think that you referred to as the distinction between, that line, where do you cross the line between being sub-clinical and clinical, which is a little bit harder thing to focus on.
We have had cases, several of them, people who come in for help and go into our [INAUDIBLE]  program and they describe difficulty with discarding, they describe problems with excessive acquisition, but the level of clutter in their home is not something that impinges very seriously on their life.
And so those are the ones that I think are the hardest to distinguish because it, with respect to the diagnostic criteria, there needs to be enough clutter that it impinges on their life, and the inclinity to be in the living area of the home.
Some of these folks have clutter in their attics, basement, garage and so forth, not in areas central to their living environment.
And it’s not necessarily that someone else has control of the living area.
And so those are the cases that are a little tougher to diagnose properly.
Interviewer 2: And how do you make the distinction for those individuals?
Interviewee: The distinction…yeah… the way I make the distinction is the level distress associated with the management of possessions.
By management I mean both the acquisition and the disposition – where it goes, how much care is required, and so forth.