Interviewer: So, the idea we have right now is to both try to understand the degree to which people with this problem come into the treatment setting with a different conception of what’s wrong with them and how to improve it and their providers as a way of getting at improving treatment and also improving people’s receptivity to treatment.
But also, we were kind of interested in the disorder more broadly, and we are a little bit concerned at this point, I think, that we are going to have really, really long interviews.
Our interviews with providers are already quite long, but I think that NAME’s experience with patients suggests that we’re going to be talking to people for probably a really, really long time.
So, we’re trying to think of how to do a good interview with this population.
I don’t know that there is anybody who has more experience with that than you do.
Interviewee: Yeah, well I’ll tell you that the interview process is probably going to be very long.
When we did our big psychology study we had over 200 people with hoarding disorder, almost 100 people with OCD, and then a number of community controls.
And we did an ADIS, an anxiety disorders interview schedule with a lifetime version, and it took about an hour to an hour and a half with people with OCD.
It took about 4 hours for people with hoarding, and I think you’ll see that as you go through.
Part of it reflects something about the disorder.
This tendency to provide details in a circuitous way so that the nature of the thinking, it kind of winds around.
It’s a story, it’s like what we talked about earlier, it’s a story with too many details, and there are so many details that they get lost in it so they can’t quite pull together the big picture.
Trying to summarize it all is difficult, so a lot of the details are provided.
So that’s, I think that’s what you’re going to run into in these interviews is lots and lots of details, but from their perspective, a difficulty pulling those details together to form a conclusion.
Interviewer: So, is that… that’s what we were talking about, value.
Valuing everything.
Everything is compelling, every detail of the conversation and the story is compelling as well.
I hadn’t thought of it that way.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
And not being able to distinguish what’s truly an important detail from what’s an unimportant detail.
Interviewer: Yeah.
And really, I don’t know if you remember form our first interview, we had this listing task which is, you know, supposed to generate a nice, neat list and see what is important to people based on what they say first, second, and third.
I’m really interested to see how people with this disorder do with that task.
I don’t know if it’s going to even happen, but it’ll be interesting to see how it varies.