(part 1)
Interviewer 2: Um, I’m doing good.
I’m on the line with my colleague, NAME .
Interviewee: Hi NAME .
Interviewer 1: Hi.
Nice to meet you.
Interviewee: Nice to meet you.
Interviewer 2: Ok.
Um, well first of all we just wanted to say thank you so much to agreeing to meet and interview with us.
We’re really excited about this interview.
We both read a lot of your work on hoarding disorder, so we’re really excited to talk to you today.
Interviewee: Well, it’s my pleasure.
Interviewer 2: We also, of course, wanted to thank you for sending out the email to the special interest group.
We set up several interviews through that and have conducted about five or six now.
We have a few more scheduled for later on.
We’re still continuing to receive replies, so thank you again for that.
Interviewee: Good.
Interviewer 2: Just to kind of start things off, we have an informed consent that we’d like to read to you over the phone just to let you know a little but about the study, but really it was all in the email.
We’re trying to understand how patients and clinicians understand hoarding disorder and how that understanding might differ between clinicians and patients, and we eventually want to compare these interviews to patient interviews in order to see what differences and similarities might exist.
So there are of course no direct benefits to you for participating.
The biggest risk to you would be a violation of confidentiality.
You may withdraw and discontinue participation at any time, and if you decline to participate, no one will be told.
If you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview session, you have the right to decline to answer any questions or to end the interview if you so choose.
The interview will take about sixty minutes.
Some notes will be taken during the interview and an audio recording of the interview will be taken and transcribed.
If you don’t want to be recorded, you won’t be able to participate in the study.
Any information that could identify you will be removed from the transcription and the audio recording will be destroyed afterwards.
We will not identify you by name in any reports.
All of these precautions are in order to prevent your individual comments from having any negative repercussions.
Do you have any questions about any of that?
Interviewee: No, that sounds good.
Interviewer 2: Ok.
Well thank you so much.
These are some great listings generated for us.
Kind of moving into the more free-form section of the interview.
We just kind of wanted to start out wondering if you could give us your background relating to hoarding disorder to kind of start off.
Interviewee: Ok.
I started studying hoarding disorder in about 1990, and at the time there was nothing out there in the literature on hoarding disorder.
So, the first project involved a newspaper advertisement that we put in the paper asking for people who describe themselves as packrats or chronic savers.
We had hundreds of responses and so the first study we did was in fact the first published scientific paper on hoarding was 1993, which was a review of that study or several studies relating to that using that population of a hundred people.
And since then, I’ve published I don’t know how many papers, 60 or 70 papers probably on hoarding of various kinds including a number of papers on phenomenology, some theoretical papers on theology, and a number of papers on treatment or interventions.