Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, we haven’t, but [NAME] and [NAME] and I spent a couple years trying to develop these, and we came up with a whole series of questions and just were never satisfied that they captured what we intended with insight.
And I think at the time we weren’t quite sure how to define it, in fact we have a paper on that talking about the notion of insight in hoarding.
It’s just a real tricky thing to try to figure out.
So, good luck.
Interviewer2: Yeah, we’ve kind of used your paper as a starting point for a lot of our own thinking about it.
It’s interesting to hear you talk about it.
Interviewee: Yeah, it’s really, I think it’s a really hard problem to solve.
Interviewer2: But, you know, I guess to kind of think through the problem a step further, it seems like it would be a very important problem to address because of the problems getting people into treatment and into research and sticking to treatment.
So, is your sense, and this is not on our interview script but just as a question, along those lines that insight is the biggest, kind of, block to getting people into treatment, that people, once they’re aware that they have a problem they have an easier time with things?
Or is that not the case?
Interviewee: I don’t know.
You know, whenever we’ve put out a call for research we get flooded with people with hoarding problems, so I’m not sure that insight is the impediment.
I think shame may be more than insight.
I think the majority of people know there’s something wrong.
They don’t know how to explain it.
They don’t know what it is, and maybe they don’t want to call it hoarding, because that’s… you know, there are lots of negative connotation with that term.
So, I don’t know that insight is the biggest impediment to getting people into treatment.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And so, the biggest impediment would then be getting people to admit they have a problem… I don’t know.
Where would you locate the problem if it’s not [INAUDIBLE]?
Interviewee: I think it’s more what is available to help people.
I mean, there are relatively few therapists who know how to treat this or advertise themselves knowing how to treat it, very few centers which do so, and so where people turn?
Where does an [INAUDIBLE] turn when they have a hoarding problem?
By in large, it’s not the mental health system, they go to case management systems, they go to, you know, places like Steri-Clean and things of that sort because those are the only options they know of.
Those are the only places that have any advertising.
So, I think part of the problem is there just aren’t resources available, and the other part, I think, is shame.
It’s like going to the dentist, nobody, you know, people avoid going to the dentist just because it’s… you know, they don’t like it.
Interviewer2: Well the next kind of couple of questions that we have go along with that really nicely.
We were just wondering if you could talk us through, from your experience, the typical process that occurs in order to get patients into your office for treatment or for study participation.