Interviewee: Because, you know, everything is reductionistic.
You can say that anything you do is biological.
It’s got an associated activity in the brain that directs it, and so does that make it biological?
Interviewer: Yeah.
I think that’s a good question, and that kind of ties into something else that we wanted to ask you about.
The explanation that individuals with hoarding disorder have, those reasons that justify their behaviors, do you feel that those explanations are just post hoc reasons to justify a pathological need?
Interviewee: Yeah possibly, possibly.
And, you know, thinking about a lot of this, you know, these post hoc explanations, I mean they could fit for any of it.
You know, we have this model where we talk about the nature of the attachments to possessions as being something that drives the disorder, but maybe they are post hoc explanations.
So, someone has the disorder, they engage in this behavior they have to look for an explanation for the behavior.
Maybe the behavior comes first and they create this explanation about being attached to the object.
So, if I want to keep this object I must be attached to it, it must have some significance.
And then they go through mental gyrations trying to figure out what the significance is and latch on to the, you know, sentiment, emotional attachment, responsibility, and so forth.
So, you know, I think the post hoc explanations do weigh in to a lot of these things.
Interviewer: So, you would say that you feel that for a good portion of individuals there may be some kind of need that’s being explained by psychological things or personality or whatever?
Interviewee: I think so, I mean I think… I think that it’s hard for people who are engaging in a behavior that they feel some degree of shame about not to make attributions about one’s character, and it’s especially hard for family members of people with hoarding disorder not to make attributions about their character.
And so, I think that plays into the disorder and how much shame and how much depression is generated by it.
Interviewer: Interesting, ok.
Ok, another, kind of tie in to that is do you think that… or how much do you think that cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions, how much do you think that that plays a role in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: That’s a good question.
I think it does but only a small amount.
We’ve done a little bit of research, we have and published it, looking at materialism and hoarding, and they were correlated, measures of materialism were correlated with hoarding, but the correlations weren’t substantial.
They were significant, but they weren’t substantial.
Interviewer: And what do you think the relationship is between hoarding disorder and compulsive or addictive shopping, or a disorder where it focuses more on acquisition or acquisitions of specific items?
Interviewee: Oh, I think they’re closely related.
I think acquisition, excessive acquisition is a nearly universal aspect of hoarding.
From the data that we have, 90 to 95% of people with hoarding disorder acquire excessively or have trouble controlling their acquisitions.
And so, you talked about compulsive shopping or compulsive acquiring, there may be folks who compulsively acquire who don’t hoard, and there are a few people who have hoarding disorder but don’t acquire excessively, although relatively few, I think.
I think there’s a substantial overlap there.