Interviewer2: Well, [NAME], do you want to ask our final question and we can talk about the rest of the story?
Interviewer1: Yeah, so this is the last thing that we kind of like to close with in all our interviews what do you think are the biggest things that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Wow.
There’s a lot.
There’s a lot we don’t know.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewee: And so, I don’t know what would be the biggest thing.
I think… I think how to change… something I’m still going with now is how to change certain kinds of beliefs.
I think beliefs about possessions related to sentimental attachment and so forth, those we can change.
The acquisition we can do pretty well at, but the belief that seems to me to be the most intransigent, the most difficult to treat, is this fear of wasting something.
It rises to the level of almost scrupulosity much like what the scrupulosity we see in OCD, in fact we have a paper out now where we’ve developed a measure of what we call material scrupulosity, and it sort of combines this intense perfectionism with this fear of waste and turns it into a moral problem.
So, I’m only a moral person if I don’t waste anything.
The trouble is that, you know, as a culture we’ve come to be very wasteful, so this belief in some ways is really a pro social belief, but it’s a pro social belief that’s taken to such an extreme that it destroys the person’s life.
And being able to change that is really hard.
The cases I’ve seen where that’s really powerful, there’s been almost no change in their orientation towards possession.
And I think that’s… I guess for me… It’s a small piece of it because it’s a big pie, but that’s the one that seems to me the real, the most difficult attachment to break with possessions.
Interviewer1: I think that that’s really interesting, especially that you described it as pro social, because that immediately got me thinking about egosyntonic and egodystonic behaviors.
We’re almost extending that, or you’re extending that to if its socially syntonic or socially dystonic and to what degree it is.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer1: And if it’s socially syntonic its harder to grapple with.