Interviewer 2: Another thing to kind of follow off that that I was struck by in your book, and to go off that idea of giftedness, I got the sense that, in addition to being overly aesthetic, they were also overly empathetic.
That was also kind of a trait that was common, that they empathize too much with things that maybe you shouldn’t necessarily empathize with, but they felt that objects really had more, kind of, feeling and felt for them.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah.
And I’ve been working on a couple of projects now with a couple of individuals looking more deeply at their experience.
And they’re very different.
One is sort of material scrupulosity and the other has a sentimental kind of attachment.
But they each talk about believing that they are an empath, and, you know, empaths, I guess in the Star Trek sets, but empaths for objects, and for people as well, but it’s quite interesting and no one has really looked into that.
Interviewer 2: Do you find that that empathy extends to people, for people who have this trait, that they are also overly empathetic to people, or is it really objects?
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t know.
For these two, they’re insistence is that it generates to people.
I don’t know, I don’t know that I’ve seen that that often, but according to them it does.
Interviewer 2: Well, we kind of wanted to close out our talk today by kind of stepping back from the interview.
Those were all the interview questions that we had.
And [NAME] feel free to jump in.
And we were kind of thinking forward through the next stages of our project and we wanted to talk about the project a little bit.
[INAUDIBLE] your input into it and kind of see if you would be willing to help us moving forward just to think through some of these issues when start to do our interviews with hoarders.
I don’t know, [NAME] do you want to jump in?
Interviewer 1: Yeah.
I guess so the next stage for us after we were planning on going back and looking through our clinician interviews and maybe reframing and refocusing some of our interview questions in order to get at pieces that haven’t reached thematic saturation yet and see if there are more opinions that we can gather.
And, kind of moving forward to develop our patient interview, I guess we were thinking that, if you would be so inclined, that perhaps we could get in touch with you again at that point down the road since you have already spent a considerable amount of time thinking on these things especially when it comes to the insight piece and just kind of having you look through or take a look at our patient interview to see if, based on from your experience, we’d be able to get at the things we were trying to get at with this population.
Interviewee: Sure, I’d be happy to do that.