Interviewer: Okay, kind of inline with that we’ve we were wondering how do you define insight?
Interviewee: Hm hm, yeah that’s an interesting question, I would define insight as what is this person aware of um that discomfort or the suffering even the whole situation is is creating for them.
Yeah I’d say it's if they if one person if someone can realize they actually are suffering because they can't sleep in their bed, and they will feel bad about this then this is this is someone who is good insight, and if someone is like is almost like comfortable in their cocoon and feel like there’s nothing too serious about this um and they are not aware of their thought process or emotions, yeah almost like normal cluttered life, like this is someone I would have consider low insight.
Interviewer: Yeah so its kind of related to the their understanding of the consequences of their actions.
Interviewee: Yeah, or also the the actual day to day experience, moment to moment experience of living with clutter.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: So in the literature there’s been kind of a break down of the concept of insight is a various constructs that uh might be contributing to what is seen as variation and insight for people with hoarding disorder so-
Interviewee: hmm.
Interviewer: Some of theses, were just going to be wondering from you are any of theses things more prevalent or more problematic in your work?
So theses have included things like defensiveness, um the conflict of anosognosia or lack of ability to perceive your illness that something’s wrong, over valuation so beliefs about the values of items that are um abnormal and indifference.
Interviewee: Hm what’s the last one?
Interviewer: Indifference.
Interviewee: Indifference, hm hm and the question was what?
LAUGHING
Interviewer: Uh no no problem we were just wondering are, if have you seen theses, are any of them more prevalent or problematic?
Interviewee: Uhuh, huh, I would imagine there is um, I would imagine I am only seeing um a more mild version of there because if people come for treatments they they they are like a self selected sample already and, but I do I did have heard people describe before like years and years ago they were in the stage where they don’t see it as a problem at all kind of like indifference in the situation that you mentioned yeah so I I’ve heard people describing their previous state more close to what you are describing but because they are here for treatment, they are they’ve overcome a lot of these not that they are totally aware of it all the time.
Interviewer: Okay so in the practice that you have now, in the patients that you see, you don’t see much defensiveness or anosognosia, or even the overvalued ideation, you don’t see those as much?
Interviewee: Well there, I I see these um but but they would be defensive sometimes but its its like um its like these are okay to communicate in therapy, and like I say they are defensive but but they are not um they are open to to different um um different perspectives, and um so when you are when you are saying theses things um different categories I was imagining the worst case of theses things so yeah, so thank you for reminding me that in my practice I do see people sometimes they would have things coming up yeah.
Interviewer: Okay