P3: Mhm, like what is the process for patients that they are able to transitions from low insight to a place where they are able to get treatment?
Interviewee: Hm um, I remember a few people that shared with me that they were they were in the beginning very ambivalent about where they had a problem or whether they want to get treatment, and so they they started to to enter this ambivalent and because somehow they they started to realize this is not normal or not everybody or not many people can encounter situations like this and I think they actually some of them mentioned that they were watching the hoarder show, and then it was kind of making them like to think ‘ am I like that?’ or ‘how much am I not like them’ and they started to like have a context of ‘oh how that’s like’ or ‘how I can compare to this person in the TV show’, so that has pros and cons and that sometimes encouraged them to to want to um get more information’s about, it sometimes is makes them feel like um they’re very scared to come out because the hoarders show is very extreme and so they will start and then then look for more information and um an then almost like staring to open their eyes up and starting to pay attention to to things and resources and a lot of my um our folks are familiar with the local organization, um mental health association, they do um a lot of outreach to to different settings so they they start to get in touch with this organization so they start to get in touch with their peer group and a lot of people in the peer support group they are still um kind of like feel like they are just clutter-ers they are not hoarders, they are very sensitive about the the differentiation of the two different types of people.
Yeah so I think that that’s how I imagine that they start like just sitting at home thinking there’s no problem and then they start to reach out to resources for help, yeah.
P3: Um and how long has their behavior typically been going on by the time you see them in treatment?
Interviewee: Hm, um I would say decades.
P3: Decades?
Interviewee: Mhm, yeah.
P3: Uh, and
Interviewer: Um
P3: Go ahead NAME
Interviewer: No go.
P3: No it’s okay, you take the next one.
Interviewer: Mkay, um so when you will first see a patient how aware are you, or how aware are the typical patients that they have hoarding disorder when they first come in?
Interviewee: How aware are uhuh.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: The people I would see they would they would typically they would already say they have hoarding problems; I want to see you yeah they would already self identify as someone with hoarding problems
P3: Oh okay.
Interviewee: Yeah
P3: And what do you think the role of family and friends in kind of getting to a hoarding diagnoses are?
Interviewee: Yeah they are they are, I would say I’ve met some of them they were encouraged by their family members yeah-
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: So they-
P3: Which which of their family members most often are involved?
Interviewee: Uh which one, which of them?
P3: Mhm, which family members most often kind of help them to to reach their-