P3: Okay, um if you were to, it sounds like you don’t it sounds like what you’re saying is that um in your practice a lot of times when patients see you they already have a degree of insight because they’re seeking treatment um-
Interviewee: Mhm
P3: If you were to or if you have tried to explain hoarding disorder to a patient with low insight how would you explain it, how would you try to help a patient with hoarding disorder understand what hoarding disorder is and that they have it?
Interviewee: Hm, mhm uh you mean uh to someone who is seeking treatment or to someone who is maybe wondering if they have hoarding disorder or not?
P3: Yeah to someone who is having a problem with insight into their hoarding disorder, to someone who’s maybe isn’t isn’t quite sure, or isn’t quite convinced they have this disorder.
Interviewee: Mhm, so I’m trying to imagine an example so maybe it would be someone who says ‘oh I just have too many things and my my daughter asked me come see you’ yeah there were cases like this too, yeah.
So in this situation I would I would try to help them to become aware of how this um situation is and getting in the way of them living a better life condition they can have could have so I can ask them ‘oh um is there any inconvenience?’ ‘oh no’ they may be defensive and say ‘oh I’m very used to it I’m very comfortable with it there’s no problem about this’ and then um then so kind of like motivational interview and try to help them to see the discrepancy of what they could have to like to live um and in the current condition and, uh so um- sorry I’m blanking out on the original question.
P3: Oh no no no, that was a great answer it sounds like if you’re saying you’re trying to help patients to understand their disorder you really focus on they way that the disorder is getting in the way of their life and try to highlight it and how their lives could be better/
Interviewee: Yeah yeah yeah.
P3: Okay, and NAME ?
Interviewer: Yeah so the next thing that we want to do is talk about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder have for their behavior, so for the next couple of questions we want you really to think about how your patients would respond to these questions.
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer: For the first one uh and this is from the Brown assessment of belief scale, what do you think has caused you to have these behaviors, do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?
Interviewee: Hm and I you want me to imagine a patient, how a patient uh would-
Interviewer: How patients would-
Interviewee: Answer the questions.
Interviewer: Respond yeah.
Interviewee: Hm I think they would try to recall if they have any um relatives that may also have similar tendencies, and if they do they may say ‘yeah I believe is biological, its because my father for example also would have clutter INAUDIBLE