P1: Okay um can you tell us you know what kind of people are are more likely to be hoarders is it older or younger individuals, people of a certain race, or socioeconomic status, people living in rural or urban settings?
P3: Hm um the the rate of hoarding disorder increase as the age increases and um its al lot more common, it’s a lot more prevalent with people who are fifty-five years older or sixty years uh older than sixty or fifty-five years old, and um yeah so in that age range is more its like six or seven percent, but in general then it's more like two two percent so among the older folks its more common and um a lot of these folks are more um, they have lower income, um but it doesn’t mean that rich people don’t have hoarding problems, and um a lot of these folks are also uh not able to keep their jobs yeah. In terms of whether its more urban or rural this one I’m not quite sure. 
P1: Mkay and were there any other things outside of those that you think a certain type of person would be more likely to be a hoarder?
P3: My observation is that a lot of people with hoarding problems the are quiet creative, they are kinda like they are kind of artistic, and they can see fine details that that other people don’t see. 
P1: Okay. 
P3: Yeah INAUDIBLE (26:59) answer to this question. 
P1: Okay no um definitely definitely, now can you think of any specific cases that have been challenging to diagnose, either clinically or for research purposes, because it was on the border between pathological and nonpathological, and how you made that distinction? 
P3: Yeah there was a recent case, that uh um the reason why she it was hard to diagnose for her was um she um um her clutter was based on based on her description, that based on her reasoning was to to lack of money to afford storage unit, and recently she had a lot of loss uh family member died in the past five or six years and she had a lot of um PTSD symptoms and depression, and so and the timing of the of the clutter starting kind of um was around the time when all of that was happening when all the very obvious PTSD and major depression symptoms were starting and also, she had to spend all her saving flying to different parts of the country to funerals, so she couldn’t afford storage unit anymore and she had to move things to her very small studio, and so she so it uh it was hard to tell whether the clutter was was um because of these financial and other diagnoses or was because of hoarding, yeah. 
P1: Okay okay. 