Interview 005
P1: Hey how are you?
Interviewee: I’m good how are you?
P1: Doing good, how’s the conference been going?
Interviewee: Ugh, I’m just ready to be done (laughing).
P1:(laughing) (0:42)
Interviewee: Uh you want to do the nineteenth at twelve thirty for doctor NAME? (0:45)
P1: Yeah even to twelve thirty. 
Interviewee: I’ll put it on the calendar, do you want me to reply to her, NAME (0:56)?
P1: Um I think I did, did I CC you on that?
Interviewee: Yeah, I just missed it, hm yeah I just missed it.
P1: Let me double check.
P3: I see it. 
P1: Yeah okay, alright so were going to alternate questions after you do the free listing prompt and intro?
Interviewee: Mhm 
P1: Do you want to do the most important features one or do you want to start alternating at that point?
Interviewee: Uh yeah, I think i'll do, I’ll just intro the subject the study and the free listing, and then I’ll say can you just give us some background and then after that you can take it away.
P1: Okay
Interviewee: Okay 
P1: Yeah that sounds like a plan. Okay I will go ahead and give her a buzz and get this started.
Interviewee: INAUDIBLE (1:52) I didn’t tell you this yesterday but like, probably isn’t the right word but I was I was very clear INAUDIBLE (2:00), and I was like I really like working with NAME (2:02) he’s like he’s got it straight in order INAUDIBLE (2:05). We didn’t talk about this he did it exactly right I think it worked way better with the little summary at the end. 
P1: Yeah I literally I’d pull up the notes that um I’d taken from the day that we talked about it I was like shit I gotta make sure I did this right.
Interviewee: Yeah no, you did a great job and um I like I just had like a moment of pleasure of working with you and being like: he took notes and that’s what he’s doing, and did it exactly right so (laughing) thank you for doing that. I I realize that we hadn’t like talked about it before going into the interview I think it went off great went on great.
P1: Yeah yeah I think it did-
Interviewee: Anyway
P1: INAUDIBLE (2:43) definitely helped definitely so hopefully this one will be even better. I’ll go ahead and give her a call, okay?
Interviewee: Uhuh
P1: Also just so you know all of this is recorded so I now have record of you complimenting me. 
Interviewee: (laughing) oh good, (laughing) how awkward. 
P1: Alright, I think we’re all on the line together now. 
Interviewee: Okay hi. 
P3: Hi
Interviewee: Its nice to meet you, I’m NAME, I’m a colleague of NAME. 
P3: Okay.
Interviewee: How are you?
P3: Good, how are you NAME?
Interviewee: I’m doing well. Um I I guess I’ll just start by introducing a little bit about the project that we’re doing-
P3: Okay. 
Interviewee: And then we a have a its like a informed consent script for you to listen to-
P3: uhuh
Interviewee: And decide if you’d like to participate and then we'll get started with the interview okay?
P3: Okay
Interviewee: And if at any point um you can’t hear me or understand what I’m saying, because I’m in a kinda weird location, um I’m at a conference right now, so if you can't hear me just let me know um-
P3: Okay
Interviewee: So just to give you the background information NAME and I are kind of trying to understand um how patients and clinicians understand hoarding disorder, and how understanding hoarding might differ between clinicians and patients. So right now were kinda we kinda split into two phases, and the phase that were working on right now is the clinician’s perspectives so that’s why were um interviewing you, we will eventually want to compare these interviews with um interview that we do with patients. And so some of the questions that we ask may be a little odd, but the idea is to compare what clinicians will say in response to these questions to what patients will say. So that’s the intent of of our project, um we’re also kind of interested in how knowledge about hoarding disorder is spreading between researchers and clinicians who have different um different amount of ya know experience and and knowledge of um hoarding, so that’s another thing that were interested in. So that’s kind of a background for our project and our intention. Um if you have any questions through the project uh we can happy to answer them otherwise I can go ahead and read you the informed consent uh 
P3: Okay. 