Interviewee: It there anything you’d like to know before we get started?
P3: Uh not at this point. 
Interviewee: Okay so um our informed consent: your volunteering to participate in our research project conducted by NAME (6:27) from UNIVERSITY (6:29). The aim of this study is to better understand the ways that researchers and clinicians think about hoarding disorder. You’ll be one of approximately thirty people being interviewed for this research, your participation in this project is voluntary, you will not be paid for your participation. You may withdraw and discontinue participation at any time without prenatally, if you decline to participate or withdraw from the study no one will be told. Most interviewees will find the discussion interesting and thought provoking, if however, you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview you have the right to decline to answer any question or to end the interview. Um so participation in this study involves being interviewed by researchers from UNIVERSITY (7:05), the interview will last approximately sixty minutes and we’ll take notes during the interview, um we also plan to make an audio tape of the interview and um the subsequent dialog will be transcribed. Um if you don’t want to be taped you will not be able to participate in the study. Um the researchers will not identify you by name in any of the reports using any of the information that came from this interview and your confidentially as a participant and in the study will remain secure. Subsequent uses of our records and data will be subject to the standard data use policies, which protect the anonymity of individual or institutions faculty and administrators from my campus will be neither present at your interview nor have access to log notes or transcripts, um this precaution will prevent you individual comments from having any negative reproductions’. This research study has been approved by the institutional review board at UNIVERSITY (7:52) and I am happy to send you um any contact information the IRB and for the PI at the end of this interview. Um do you have any questions for me about any of that?
P3: Hm nope.
Interviewee: Okay that’s fine, so um now we're done with the listing component of the interview, I appreciate you doing that. 
P3: Mhm.