P3: Um and I just wanna get started on our kind of more reform interview by having you um just give a little bit of info about your background related to hoarding disorder, um and how you’ve become involved.
Interviewee: Mhm okay.
So I um my PhD was in PTSD, and so when I was looking for jobs I saw the INAUDIBLE  post at INAUDIBLE  at the time hiring postdoc to do article to be involved in clinical trials she was working on, so then I applied and then I got in, so I went and worked in that context for three uh three years and and three months I think three years and four months something like that yeah.
So I my involvement in the in the um in the clinical trial was to for people with hoarding problems, yeah and so that finished um in 2014 so that’s when it started and it finished in 2017.
And so in the course of that course of three years and something months, I uh ran maybe uh fifteen sixteen groups INAUDIBLE  groups and this intent more than a hundred people with hoarding problems homes.
Yeah so that was my experience and after that um now I’m in the process of getting my license in California on working with this type of system, and continuing to see people with hoarding problems but also something else.
Yeah that's it.
Interviewer: Mkay um so for the rest of the interview uh NAME  and I are going to kinda be alternating off with asking you some different questions, and the one that we wanted to start off with is, uh what are the most important features of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Hm um this is different from any of the previous answers of previous questions or or?
Interviewer: Yeah, yeah I guess what were kind of trying to get at with this one is what are the differences that are really important and differentiating between normal saving behavior and pathological hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Ah okay hm, so I think one of these would be um would be the the psychological reasons for not getting rid of things or for keeping things so for for example for collecting behaviors, the underlying mechanism would be would be would be very different from hoarding and um so and with hording the collection is more um to deal with um sentimental reasons and more emotional and more fear based, and and it creates a lot of shame, but compare with um um um collecting behaviors, like healthy collecting behaviors, is more more uh got a lot of pride it's not as much shame and um and also with hoarding um its yeah, it's more the psychological reasons of not getting rid of things more that the physical capacity or practical concerns.