Interviewer: Okay, okay um and so the next one we wanted to to ask was: uh how connived that are you that you need to keep theses things, or that bad will come of discarding how do you think your patients would-
Interviewee: How do what?
Can you say the question again?
Interviewer: Yeah, no problem.
How convinced are you that you need to keep theses things, or that something bad will come of discarding them?
Interviewee: Hm I think it would depend on what what item it is, but uh i'll just imagine the the most extreme case so, the most extreme case is that they would um for example, one person keeping um her moms um uh han-hand like the check um that had her moms handwriting, um so she would she would be one hundred percent sure that she has to keep it and because if she doesn’t keep it then she won't have anything with her moms handwriting on it and uh her reasoning is, ‘this is so um this is so um so like like this is so important how can I let go of this?’, this is impossible I would never, I would never do that.
So yeah that would be one hundred percent sure I would never get rid of it.
P3: Mhm mhm.
Um for the next question I want to remind you of a of the list that you generated of reasons that people give for um their hoarding behavior, like um the list included good memories, using it later, giving the object a good home, um to what extent do you think that um that theses are um closed-hook reasons for justifying a pathological need um versus actual explanations for their behavior?
Interviewee: hm.
P3: I don’t know if that question was quite clear.
Interviewee: um.
P3: So do you think that theses reasons are the real reasons, or do you think these reasons are just the result of an underlying need that they have just kind of come up with to justify their um hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Hm yeah, yeah this is a very good question, hm, I would I would say at least half of the case this is very more conservative estimation, I would say this would be the more um uh more superficial reasons and it may and I don’t know if it's something they come up to justify the behavior, or this is a kind of like a defense mechanism for something more vulnerable deep down, yeah I um I’m thinking as I’m saying this I am remembering sometimes like several cases in the groups that I led, people would realize actually a lot of times they are they are having under the real underlying issue for example, for one person who had shared, he doesn’t know he wouldn’t know what to do with his life if he no longer has hoarding problems, its almost like now he has something to focus on and if if I don’t have to focus on this, and my problem is solved he will be facing something that’s terribly scary and I don’t know what to do with my life and so I I as I’m answering the question I’m thinking, about this example and I think there are other examples too like, its more about the emotions underlying underlying that’s probably more scary to face so they are probably more like uh um the more uh thoughts and justifications for for all this behaviors and they are thinking of ‘this is why I should keep this’ so its to not directly tough the emotions for example loss of a family member, or yeah loss of an identity of the past that they used to have when they were still working, for example, yeah.