P3: I can I’m under the impression that more often the the um son or the daughters, the children, yeah they younger generation.
Interviewee: Mhm mhm okay, um and what about kind of employees of institutions or um state employees, such as social workers, police officers or things like homeowners associations are they ever involved, and if so how frequently or in what capacity?
P3: Yeah those those organizations are sometimes involved too, so there were there are people who are seeking treatment because their their building manager and also social worker in the building, if they live in senior housing um realize the problem and then they get involved, yeah.
Interviewee: Okay.
P1: Okay.
Interviewee: Um yeah
P1: Yeah so uh were just about at the end of the interview, the last question that we really wanted to ask you was what do you think are the biggest things that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder?
P3: Hm I think there are so many big things we still don’t know about hoarding disorder. I’m um (laughing) many many many questions are like like in my head jumping up and saying ‘pick me pick me’. 
Interviewee: (laughing) You don’t have to pick one, you can make a list if you want.
P3: So I I I find it very interesting that uh because hoarding disorder started when say when people were in their childhood, so I wonder I think this is so understudied, because we are now focusing on the already very sick ones, which are the older ones but we know the behavior starts so early on, what’s going on and how do they continue? Like is it simply that after they leave home then they don’t have parents um picking up things or or controlling them so they start to get this disorder? Or maybe there are some other things that make this behavior worse or continues some? Or does it just disappear um say in their mid-life and they just stop hoarding? I just feel like there is it’s a mystery how what what happens to these younger, or even kids yeah so this is one reason, and the other reason is related to one of questions you asked we  we are very much focused on on the more um the more cognitive components or how people think how people with hoarding problems think and therefore they have theses behaviors but what about something more underlying? Like there is research starting to look at um cells and um looking at emotional tolerance and I think that these are all still these are all very important to continue to look at into the more deeper roots of the problem. Yeah and 
Interviewee: Okay
P3: Of course we’ve all heard the INAUDIBLE (1:06:44)
Interviewee: INAUDIBLE (1:06:46)
P3: Sorry 
Interviewee: No no that’s a great answer.
P3: Yeah and I I said, they last thing was that of course there’s heritability but we don’t know which genes yet, but that’s obviously more up there and worth digging into. 
Interviewee: Mhm. 
P3: Yeah, so many (laughing).