Interviewee: And and kind of a follow up on that, uh in terms of the intended use of the space so that you have some functions INAUDIBLE (38:43) substantially compromises the intended use, um do you ever think about um whether there might be other appropriate uses for example, somebody who wants to use the space for storage where that space might not be intended for storage, but I guess I’m wondering what is an appropriate intended use for a space?
P3: Hm uh um I I think the way I determine this so for example kitchen is intended to be used for cooking, and bedroom is for sleeping and um dining table is intended to to you can sit there and eat, yeah. 
Interviewee: Mhm. 
P3: Yeah so that’s how I determine it.  
Interviewee: The intended use, okay. 
P3: Yeah.
Interviewee: Um, the next criteria, the last criteria actually I’d like you to think through with us is the one that starts ‘this difficulty is due to a preceded need to save items and the distress associated with discarding them’ eh and um what we were wondering about this one was how you assess someone’s distress to determine what’s normal or abnormal with regard to discarding, what for you is distinguishing from abnormal stress?
P3: Yeah, so um uh so so if someone says if that I want I want to get rid of this but I can’t bring myself to do this and because I would feel sad or it would be terrible if I can’t find it anymore, then like if I get rid of it later I can’t I when I want to use it I can’t have it it's like uh so when they have a lot of um uh when uh, because these would be like normal uh consequences for for normal people like we often will get rid of things and then later we realize  ‘oh we shouldn’t have get gotten rid of that I can I could have used it now’ but its not um for people without hoarding disorder it wasn’t it wouldn’t feel like like almost like the end of the world or very um very extreme but for people with hoarding disorder they tend to um um consider these as very intolerable situations and emotions are quiet strong, yeah. 
Interviewee: Mhm. 
P3: Am I answering your question? (laughing)
Interviewee: Yeah no no I think you, are I guess I’m wondering- 
P3: Okay. 
Interviewee: If you think patients do have lower levels of insight into their disorder um it might sometimes have difficulty with this criteria, or they might not be aware of how distressed they are?
P3: Yeah yeah yeah they um they can they can say that ‘oh I already I know that I’m going to get rid of it and then sometimes I thought I should often’ so how long how long have have this uh this the INAUDIBLE (42:02) thing been sitting there and often times they would say ‘oh actually it's over a year now’, and so that that will give me an idea of maybe this is not its not as easy as they think it is for them to get rid of it. 
Interviewee: So they might not realize, they might not even realize that they have distress, so it's not even that they might be denying it to you they they really don’t know that they’re stressed.
P3: Mhm yeah.
Interviewee: Okay.