P1: Okay so it is something that you think is based on the the values that are culture escribed to different things?
P3: Yeah. 
Interviewee: Okay um, I just want to ask you about another one of um one of the criteria, so this criteria reads ‘the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromise their intended use’ so the question I’d like to ask is how do you judge um clutter and how much stuff counts as clutter?
P3: Mhm yeah yeah so this is also this is also a tricky one. So I have seen people who have um who don’t have a lot of a lot of clutter, but they still have other emotional attachment that is very typical for people with hoarding problems and um so it seems that clutter seems to me that is more like the severity of the disease so kind of like when someone has died INAUDIBLE (35:29) they already INAUDIBLE (35:32) different but an and if someone has diabetes but they are still in the early stage of the disease then they don’t have as much um symptoms and that’s how I see it, I actually see it this um this criteria as a a like additional like help to diagnose but the core I think would be the first two criteria, which is the difficulty and why its difficult for them to let go of things. 
Interviewee: So somebody can have hoarding disorder and not actually have as much clutter because- 
P3: Yeah. 
Interviewee: What really for you defines the disorder is the difficulty discarding?
P3: Yeah yeah, although I know that the criteria says this is a very important one and it’s a necessary one.
Interviewee: Mhm. 
P3: But yeah I think people who who are more more financially resourceful so they actually have another house that is meant for their clutter to go to and more storage units, yeah.
Interviewee: So um we were just about to ask about that yeah, so it sounds like how much space you have also kind of can play a role. What about other people in the home who might control the space, do you think that um living with someone who who is in control of the space can impact it?
P3: Yeah, yeah, and that’s why in uh in I think in this particular INAUDIBLE (37:02) relationship criteria also say it's not because of other people it is intervening the place. 
Interviewee: Mhm. 
P3: Yeah and I, its common they live with family members but it's more under control. 
Interviewee: Mhm mhm okay. 
P1: Okay another question we had for you, so for healthy individuals there seems to be be a degree of variance in the amount of free space they might like in their home so for example, some people might prefer to have uh uh clear counter top while others prefer to have some things out and and ready to use. Could hoarding disorder you think just be an extension of this variance that surpasses a socially acceptable threshold? 
P3: Hm uh, I don’t think that is INAUDIBLE (38:01) yeah I think they’re I actually think that it's not a continuum this it uh um I think it’s a different thing, it's not only because they want something to be out there so it's easier to use, it more fear based its like if I don’t do this I may have negative consequences, so in this way I think these are different. 
Interviewee: Okay 
P1: Okay