P3: Okay so um should I do the next question [NAME] ?
Interviewer1: Yeah so now we're just talking about yeah DSM five yeah mhm.
P3: Yeah so were just going to ask some questions about the DSM five criteria.
Um so we can better understand the way that clinicians understand these criteria um, and how they pertain to diagnoses.
Um so have you ever had to apply the DSM five criteria with the intent of diagnosing an individual according to disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah um
P3: Are there things about those criteria that you sometimes find challenging or particular elements of the criteria that you think are particularly difficult to apply or that you think different clinicians might apply slightly differently?
Interviewee: Hm I believe so yeah um-
P3: Anything that comes to mind?
Interviewee: Hm I think that um, I think uh the the the difficulties or emotional difficulties of letting go of stuff um this one can be tricky sometimes, especially uh when you interact with people who are um less aware of their their difficulties, they may say ‘oh I don’t have difficulties I can get rid of them I just don’t have time’ yeah so this one can be-
P3: Okay, so that might be mhm do you feel like clinical judgment plays role in diagnosis of hoarding disorder and how would you compare that in your experience to the role of clinical judgment in other psychiatric disorders?
Interviewee: Uh can you say this again?
I’m not quite sure, I don’t understand the question.
P3: Yeah so this is just kind of wondering to what extent you think an individual clinician kind of clinical judgment about what constitutes hoarding disorder plays a role in in diagnoses, and what do you think that that’s that’s special with hoarding disorder, or whether it pertains to um all psychiatric disorders equally?
Interviewee: Hm I would imagine it would be similar um yeah, I I I don’t think that that um clinicians would have more or less personal influence on how they they diagnose hoarding that other diagnoses but of course I think um each individual um clinicians may have their own bias that may lead them to um diagnose someone with ‘A’ diagnoses more than ‘B’ diagnoses.
But I think overall across all clinicians I don’t think that hoarding disorder may be more or less bias then other diagnoses.
P3: Mhm.
Interviewee: uh, well not now, that I say it I think that um I guess because because hoarding is still very new so, not a lot of people, not a lot of clinicians are sensitive as sensitive about hoarding then are other diagnose such as hm major depression, so they may not have the clinical sensitivity to think of ‘oh I wonder if I should go through this with this person?’.
P3: Mhm mhm.
Interviewee: Yeah, so it can be under diagnosed yeah.
P3: Mhm, okay um want to take the next one [NAME] ?
Interviewer1: Yeah, so uh now we want ask you some questions about how you think about specific DSM five criteria, so I’m gonna read you a phrase and I want to know a little bit more about your thought process when applying it to an individual patient.
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer1: So one of the phrases in the DSM is the ‘persistent difficulty discarding and/or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value’ so-
Interviewee: Mhm
Interviewer1: How is it that you’re determining value and what makes the value judgment that someone with hoarding disorder makes inappropriate?
Interviewee: Mhm hm yeah so I try to interpret um this criteria as the value that most people, or people who don’t have sentimental values with this item would consider the value of this thing for example like a receipt or plastic shopping bags or or yeah, or containers of food that they have consumed, so these would be um I think what the criteria mean by um regardless of the values, meaning that its not valuable.