Interviewer: Ok. And that kind of brings us to the part of the question that talks about intended use, um, the compromises of intended use.
Interviewee: By the way, I think one of the things you also or want to be aware of, and I’m sure you know this, is that if someone else lives in the home and they protect the living spaces, and the, it’s only, it’s the spaces that the other person who has control over that is a disaster, that can be one hoarder in the home and on non-hoarder who has control.
So you can have a disastrous basement and attic and have one of those people in the house.
But, if you, if that house is lived in by only one person, then I have a hard time calling them a hoarder.
Interviewer: Mmhmm.
Interviewee: Ok, I’m sorry, go back to your question.
Interviewer: Yeah, so um, we were talking about kind of compromising use of the space and, we were wondering if you could talk through, again, what counts as compromised use and how, you know, people can come in, whether the person’s intent is to use the space for storage even though it happens to be a stove or countertop, and whether there are perhaps differences in how much free space an individual needs or likes to have around.
If that can be part of what’s going on in hoarding disorder.
INAUDIBLE
Interviewee: There, you know, there’s tremendous variability in everyday housekeeping by most people.
And, so, it, hoarding, um, would be diagnosed if you will only if, I guess I can give you an example.
If someone comes to the door, a friend, and wants to stop in to, I don’t know, invite you out or something.
If you can’t happily sit them down in some comfortable space in your home because you have to run around and move boxes and stuff in order to make it pass-ible and/or whatever, then you’ve got a problem.
So, people should be able to visit somewhat freely in anyone’s home and be received comfortably.
Um, uh, what else do I want to say about that?
So I guess what I’m saying is that in order to make space available that is livable, if it takes more than just a few minutes to do that, then you probably have a hoarding problem, unless the person is amidst some sort of renovation of the house or some major project that has got things in great disarray.
But if this is a steady state and it can’t be cleaned up quickly, then there’s probably a problem.
There are a lot of people who just, you know, throw stuff around and then run around once a month and clean it all up.
That’s a different, that’s just a messy home.