Interview 006
Rebecca: Ok, thank you for doing that listening exercise with us. And again just to kind of let you know our methods here. We’re going to take those lists from clinicians and compare them to a list generated by patients in response to some more questions to see where it overlaps, where there are INAUDIBLE [16:03]. And now we would like to move into kind of a more freeform, qualitative section of the interview. And just to kind of get us started with the conversation, we would like to here just a little about your background related to hoarding disorder, what your work is like now, I know that we have both read a bunch of it, so we kind of know the answer to this one but just to kind of get us situated here.
Interviewee: Ok
Rebecca: If you could give us a brief overview of your history with patients who have hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Sure. I am a clinical researcher with a social work background. So my degrees are in social work, social work clinical researcher, whatever you want to call it. I got into this work because of my work on obsessive compulsive and INAUDIBLE [16:52] conditions, which hoarding is considered one of INAUDIBLE [16:59]. So, in the course of my work on OCD, I encountered some cases of hoarding early in my career. I didn’t think too much about it except that they didn’t behave in the same fashion that my typical OCD patients behaved during treatment, and I remember wondering about it at the time. So, um, can you prompt me what else you need to know?
Rebecca: Oh just to kind of, that was it. Um, it’s just, maybe there was a follow up question that would be right now in your research what is the particular INAUDIBLE [17:38] for you.
Interviewee: Oh yeah. I am newly retired from the deanship and soon from the faculty at the university. So, I am not undertaking new research projects on hoarding. The only projects in front of me right now are writing up some research studies that were done and we have not finished the work, the publishing of them. Those are all treatment related studies, not completely, INAUDIBLE [18:15]. I also am likely to have a book contract shortly. To write a book for, that is broadly useful by a variety of professional groups as well as patients and their families. I have an [18:37] book in one of their series in which they try to make things as accessible as possible in terms of understanding the problem and treating it.
Rebecca: That sounds like a good project. It sounds like there’s still definitely will be an audience for that.
Interviewee: But that’s probably more about communicating with the people who need to know than, it is a project, it’s not a study of hoarding per say.