Rebecca: Ok. So the next question also has to do with insight. There’s a lot of literature that describes problems with patients who have this disorder having low insight. So if I were to ask you how you would define the concept of insight, how would you define it?
Interviewee: The extent to which the client recognizes or is aware of the fact that they have a problem with too much clutter and difficulty parting with objects and that they consider that to be not in their best interest, and therefore something that they would like to correct. So in my view, this is awareness of illness more like schizophrenia. Where in this case, the person who hoards their attachment, their strong feeling about an object, that they recognize that they have a very strong feeling about it and other people don’t, and therefore what they do because of that strong feeling has gotten them into trouble and other people don’t have that problem and they would like to be more like other people. That’s the best I can do with it right now. It’s not insight in the sense of OCD symptoms where you are aware that the thing that you fear in terms of the obsession that a person has, so you know, serious health consequence of touching this thing, you know, touching, I don’t know, dirty toilet. That they exaggerate that and believe that a consequence could occur. It’s not quite the same, it doesn’t fit. We’ve tried for some years to figure out how to assess insight in hoarding disorder, and it’s not going to be the same way we assess it. So the brown assessment of beliefs scale doesn’t work well. We’ve tried, but we haven’t gone over into the literature on schizophrenia for example or psychosis to see whether there’s a better instrument over there.
Rebecca: So it sounds like what you’re saying that, about this distinction. I’m going to try to articulate what you just said and you can correct me is that it’s not so much insight is that the patients recognize that their need to keep things is irrational, so much is that they recognize that their behavior is a problem and they want to change the problem in hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yes.