Interviewer: Mmhmm.
And thinking specifically about, um, kind of that distinction between normal saving behavior and what would constitute hoarding disorder, can you think of specific cases or a case that was particularly challenging for you to make the distinction between whether you were dealing with a true disorder or normal saving behavior?
And how did you end up making your decision in that case.
Interviewee: The cases that I have seen have already been bedded within our research project.
So, and I’ve not been the one who is overseeing the diagnostic process where I would be likely to encounter that.
Um, there are a couple of things that I can point to.
The, one of the problems that we have encountered and I have seen is, uh, a couple of situations where the level of depression was so high, both of these were men interestingly, that it looked like the hoarded home or the cluttered home and the disorganized home was really about being unable to get themselves to do anything that would clean up the house or enable them to keep things straight.
And, that looked like an emotional problem with depression more than a powerful urge to save.
That is, I’m just to tired, I can’t do it versus oh I need to hang on to this.
It’s that rationale.
That can be a little bit more difficult.
I’ve seen a number of OCD cases that had hoarding mixed in but was not the sole problem.
And just a couple of OCD cases in which, that what looked like hoarding was in fact OCD, and the only reason it stuck with them is that it was contaminated and couldn’t touch it.
That is not because they wanted to hang on to it, they were stuck with it.
So, the best, I don’t find that particularly difficult.
Somebody who didn’t have a background in OCD might.
But sometimes I worry about people who are organizers who may or may not be able to make that distinction.
Same with the depression.
Interviewer: Sure, and that kind of moves us nicely into the next question or the next set of questions, which looks specifically at the DSM five criteria.
Um, and, so the first part of that question is have you ever had to use these criteria, um, and applied it to the intensive diagnosing an individual with hoarding disorder?
Have you ever been part of that diagnosing process?
Interviewee: Um, yes and no. I have not, at this stage, late stage of my career, had to sit down and diagnose people using the structured interview for hoarding disorder [INAUDIBLE]  that [NAME]  have used, that’s the standard interview that is available at this point.
I’ve never had to use that to diagnose, and that’s because I’ve never been in that position in terms of looking where the client, since that was developed.
You know, only a few years old now.
Uh, but, at the same time I, uh, I was part of the process of developing the criteria that now are DSM five.
So it is hard to say I’m not involved in it, we were heavily involved in it.
It’s just that it wasn’t in DSM five at the time.