Interviewer: Interesting.
That is an interesting question.
Ok. I really appreciate your time in talking with us today.
This will be extremely valuable for us and thank you so much for your work as well.
I think that I speak for both of us when I say that we have enjoyed reading what you written and published on this topic.
We’ve gained a lot from that.
Interviewee: Well…good…go ahead.
Interviewer: That was it.
Interviewee: Ok.
Well it was very nice to talk to you and good luck with your research.
Interviewer: Before I let you go, just really quick, to tap into your kind of expertise and your knowledge on hoarding research, if you were to like think of other people who you think that it’s absolutely vital that we talk to.
Could you think of anybody, or would you prefer that we email and ask you this question so you can think about it?
Interviewee: Well you probably already have a list of folks that you have either contacted or are going to be contacting.
Um, I’m sure I would hit upon many of those people.
If there is anybody that occurs to me beyond that, I would be glad to tell you.
You may or may not…Are you allowed to tell me who’s on the radar screen?
Interviewer: Um, I mean, I’m not actually sure if we are or not, but I think that the purpose of asking that question is to make sure that we are being comprehensive and that we…
Interviewee: So the one’s… I’ll just throw out the names of the people that I work most closely with across the country.
Um, you’ve got NAME  you have to because everything I’ve written is with him.
The um, NAME  at UNIVERSITY  is working on this problem from a more cognitive and community perspective.
NAME  is one of my doc students who is working with NAME  now.
She’s also at UNIVERSITY , and um, she’s former, she’s you know, well on her way to, she’s on the faculty.
NAME , I’m sure you’ve bumped into.
NAME  works on family aspects of hoarding, PHASSOM.
Um, ok, I’m walking around the table.
NAME  out in San Diego working on older adults with hoarding and treatment.
She’s got somebody she works with as well.
Of course she’s got NAME  at UNIVERSITY .
Uh, NAME  has done a good bit of clinical work on hoarding.
NAME  likewise, clinical work with people who hoard and their family members.
Um, NAME .
He is not a clinician, not a mental health clinician.
He’s the housing guy that I mentioned and um, is I think a very rare person who developed a hoarding treatment program through the Boston housing group.
Metropolitan Boston housing partnership with, they just changed their name and I forget what it is now, um Metro Boston housing, that’s it.
Um, and has had huge experience with hoarding in the context of housing situations but also works with it extensively so knows a lot of these people.
I’m sure there are more that I am forgetting.
Interviewer: Would it be helpful if we sent you an email?
Interviewee: Sure.
You can always shoot me an email, and if anybody else occurs to me, I may or may not remember which ones I named already, but you got those or something.
Close enough.