Interviewee: I see. Yeah, that I think is relatively rare in hoarding. We see conditions of squalor, for example, are not so very common unless you’re working in particular contexts where you’ve got a lot of poverty and mental illness concurrent with what might look like hoarding and is a good bit of squalor which is indifference in the living, you know, people just don’t seem to care what condition they live in and I’m going to say that that’s not so common in hoarding and is probably accompanied by other comorbidity that better explains that indifference. Which would be, I’m guessing it’s going to be a serious mental illness. The others, defensiveness, really that’s about the history of what family members and/or authorities have said and done with them. I think that’s historical experience rather than anything to do with the hoarding per say. Um, it does occur. We certainly see it. Those tend to be the non-voluntary cases and the people working in community public health and fire and so forth are going to run into more of that. But those of us who are providing clinical treatment are going to see less of that. So part of the challenge is that these cases come from all over the place, and whoever’s talking to them, you know, how do they come to attention and so that’s going to have something to do with these different levels that you’re talking about. 
Rebecca: So it sounds like what you’re saying is that kind of the major, real causes of insight of hoarding disorder might be that lack of ability to perceive the illness and perhaps overvalued ideation being the main one than the others, indifference and defensiveness being either other comorbidities or reactions.
Interviewee: Yeah. When you speak to the issue of overvalued ideation, you probably have to do a little bit more picking apart of the concept. Because if we’re just talking about overvaluing objects, that’s a little bit clearer than, you know, somehow specifying what that ideation is we’re talking about. I get it much more easily when they talk about it for OCD than I get it for hoarding.
Rebecca: Mmhmm. And if you were to think in your clinical experience working with people with this disorder, can you give me maybe an example of how you would try to help a patient with low insight to gain insight? So what kinds of thing s would you say to your patient to help them gain insight?
Interviewee: I would go straight to motivational interviewing techniques in which you do a variety of strategies, but what you always do is take a backseat. You never ever want to try to convince them to do anything. You ask them questions to help them articulate why they’re making the choices they made and on a, you know, moment by moment basis and often use things like devil’s advocate to say well you know these things are obviously important to you. Why wouldn’t you want to hang on to them? I don’t know why you would ever consent to treatment because these are important to you. And let them take it from there, so you would always, the way I describe it is, you would always sit on the same side of the table right with them, right next to them, looking at the stuff in the that way they look at it and just keep asking questions.