Interviewer: Um, we’ve talked a little bit about the process by which patients get to your office already and you know, you’ve mentioned that there are sometimes self-motivations for bringing people to your office and that there might be family members involved sometimes.
When you do see family, friends, or a social network playing a role in helping patients to come to see you or to come to see a clinician, which relatives or members of the social network are normally involved in those cases?
Interviewee: I would say the most common at this stage of the game are adult children and second are spouses.
Interviewer: Uh-huh.
And do you often see involvement of like state employees, such as social workers or police officers or landlords for being a motivator for bringing people in.
Interviewee: Only if there’s a threat.
Interviewer: Is that relatively rare?
Interviewee: Um, no, well again, it depends on the source of the clientele.
So if I go over to NAME  and ask him about his clients in the housing authority office, he’s going to have a different experience than we do in the mental health clinic.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
And I know that we’ve reached the end of time that we got today, so I just want to close with one final question.
I would like to ask, you know, who you think are the important people that we talked to for part of this project clinically.
But the closing question is in your opinion, and we’ve touched on this a little bit, what do you think are the biggest unknowns in the world of hoarding disorder right now?
What are the biggest questions that we still don’t have answered?
Interviewee: Um, those are the ones that I mentioned at the very beginning.
To what extent is hoarding driven by very basic brain stem and/or cognitive elements?
And the rest of what we try to understand about it is that they just, uh, whoops, why am I getting the beep?
Ok, never mind.
The, uh, so we just have to understand that better in order to get it.
That’s going to put us on a much more biological level on this.
I think we also don’t have the geneticist that are telling us that there’s something going on there.
But I don’t think we have a clue what it is that is inherited and where it lies and so there’s a lot more we don’t get about that.
Interviewer: Right.
So those seem to be the biggest questions that’s kind of, uh…
Interviewee: There’s, there’s one other question and that is that while this problem is age old, so we know it is not due nearly to our current cultural context and we know it crosses cultures.
Although right now most of those cultures are western.
They have enough affluence within the culture to put people in and send money and buy stuff.
We have massive efforts to sell us things these days and to make us think that our value depends on what we own, and that’s a cultural problem.
And I do not know the extent to which if you were will be able to remove that.
People would not have the same degree of hoarding that we see now.