Interviewer: Right, right, right.
Ok, so now we’re going to get into some questions that are more focused on your kind of knowledge based about hoarding disorder.
So, if we were to talk really broadly, what, and you kind of started to do this with the list already, but just to talk in a more freeform way.
For you, what are the most salient features of hoarding disorder.
Particularly focusing on the difference between maybe what would be considered normal saving behavior or collecting and what constitutes hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Ok.
Um, I guess a salient feature is really that there is a remarkable breadth in the symptom patterns and the rationale for saving.
Which leads me to think that that much variability in the patient population, one starts to try figure out whether there is a something more basic going on that can manifest in a wide variety of ways that the source of the problem is far more fundamental.
And I think that there are probably two places to look for that.
One is in the animal literature on hoarding because there is an animal literature and that, uh, those researchers can actually take the brains apart of the animals and look at what’s going on, uh, and try to figure out the extent to which the human brain has elements that are related to whatever drives the hoarding.
This is probably brain stem level problem, not hyper-cognitive functioning.
Interviewer: Hmm
Interviewee: Um, and so you think about birds that nest, squirrels that, uh, they’re scatter hoarders and larder hoarders.
I find that a really interesting thing, and if I were to go back and start over in my, you know, early twenties, I might well go down that path.
Um, the other aspect of hoarding that catches my attention is there, uh, is an awful lot of emotion that people attach, emotion and identity meaning if you will, that people attach to objects that seems to distinguish people who hoard from people who treat objects in a more ordinary fashion.
We’re all capable of being attached to objects so that’s not the issue.
Um, it’s the degree of attachment and the kinds of things that people attach the emotions to if you will.
So, sometimes they’ll say stuff that the rest of us just look at and go “what in the world?”