Rebecca: That’s a really interesting distinction. I can see why that would make the brown assessment scale to not work as well. Do you feel like there are some subgroups within hoarding disorder that would be, that are different in terms of insights? We’ve talked about a lot of ways of potentially subdividing people within, you know, that there’s a variety, that you find that some of the subgroups have an easier time recognizing their behavior as presenting a problem or harder time.
Interviewee: Yes. I think, honestly, that it’s all from less severe, those from the less severe problem that may recognize it more easily. Possibly those with, uh, no I’m going to take that back. That doesn’t work. Yeah, I, uh, you know, at the same time I also think the level of awareness is going to be on a continuum and people will sometimes realize that they need to fix something, especially in certain emotional states, and other times be unable to see why anybody, you know…Why don’t I just say that one of the challenges we brought into in terms of differences among people is that people who have been pressured heavily to get rid of things against their will and without taking their wish to save into account, often will have a major reaction in which they say I don’t have a problem. But you can’t trust that because if you could calm them down and get them to not be anxious about what somebody would do to them or to their object, they would often be able to say well, you know, it really is kind of too much stuff and I do need to do something about it. But at the same time, nobody has the right to tell them to do that. So it will vary depending on their experience of pressure that they find intrusive, invasive, and problematic.
Christian: Ok, um, I’d like to step in and ask a question kind of relating back to what you mentioned earlier about what the meaning of insight is in the context of hoarding disorder. So in the literature, there’s been kind of a breakdown of the concept of insight into different constructs including defensiveness, anosognosia overvalued ideation, and indifference. In your experience, are any of these more prevalent or problematic in your work with individuals with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Ok, let’s go down that list NAME [52:24]. The first one you said was…
Christian: Defensiveness.
Interviewee: Defensiveness… I think you’re going to find that, ok clearly, commonly, but let’s come back to that. What was the next one?
Christian: Anosognosia.
Interviewee: Um, yeah, I’m going to say that that’s a little rarer. Go ahead, what’s the next one?
Christian: Overvalued ideation.
Interviewee: Um, that would be overvaluing the objects themselves. That’s where I always get into trouble with this one, overvalued ideation. What’s the ideation we’re talking about here?
Christian: Yeah, I think my understanding from the literature is that it relates to kind of that attachment to that object that you described.
Interviewee: Right. And a belief in the need to keep it for some reason. You know, here we’re getting into emotion versus belief in it. It’s a little tricky distinction to make. Um, yeah, go ahead, it’s hard to say. What was the last one?
Christian: The last one was indifference.
Interviewee: And what did you mean by indifference? Indifference to what?
Christian: Indifference to the state of the home, the living situation that they’re in.