Rebecca: Ok. So the next one we’d like you to talk us through is, um, the criteria states: the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially comprise their intended use. So the first thing that maybe you can talk through for us is the idea of clutter and how you determine what counts as clutter.
Interviewee: Ok. Um, I’ll just make a brief comment so it doesn’t drive me nuts. I don’t know why they had to day congest and clutter. It seems to me that if you’re congested, you’re cluttered. And if you’re cluttered, you’re congested, but oh well. Not my decision. Um, so, what constitutes clutter? In my experience, it is a… the word random comes to mind, but they’re not always random. It is a mixture of objects that are lying on top of each other, on top of furnishings, on the floor, and I guess those are the only two places they can possibly be. I’m looking around the living room I am sitting in. if I were to clutter this room, what would that look like? Um, so it is a pile of mix use objects that don’t necessarily go together, and that’s the disorganization part of it. If, however, I walked into a home and I saw a stack of books lined up that, you know, in some fashion that looked like they belong together, even if they were stacked up right, it doesn’t constitute clutter until the quantity gets to the point where you just can’t use things in the space. So I could clutter this room very neatly by adding a huge pile of books all over the place. And I could keep them neat, and I probably would have a hoarding problem if you could verify that I had trouble parting with all those books.
Rebecca: So the disorganization seems to play a role, but it is not necessary.
Interviewee: It’s not absolutely necessary. Every now and again, you bump into an organized hoarder, um, but they can’t let them go and there you have it. It’s rare. It’s quite rare.
Rebecca: Do you feel like something like home size might play into whether or not someone, um, someone’s space is considered cluttered? Like if someone has a huge basement versus if they live in a one trailer home.
Interviewee: I’m sure there’s some truth to that, but someone with a significant hoarding problem would have to have more than a basement or attic that was full of stuff.
Rebecca: Mmhmm
Interviewee: They would, they would need, it has to be in living spaces and it has to impede their use or you don’t have a hoarding problem, you just have somebody who owns a lot of stuff.