Rebecca: Right. So in thinking about those criteria, although I know you haven’t like physically applied them, you have clearly given them a great deal of thought. Do you think that there are things in the criteria that are sometimes challenging or um difficult to apply or that perhaps clinicians with different levels of experience with patients with HD might apply differently? Does anything come to mind?
Interviewee: Um, the only thing that occurs to me is the need, once you verify that there’s clutter in the home and that it interferes with function, it’s really the differential diagnosis that seems to me to be important because hoarding disorder requires that there be a, um, a hard requirement to have difficulty letting go of objects and that can sometimes be a little bit hard to distinguish, whether the rationale that you’re hearing people describe matches our understanding of, again, a wide variety of reasons why people have trouble letting go.
Rebecca: Mmhmm, mmhmm
Interviewee: And so you can hear multiple different reasons for that, that you want to make sure the difficulty parting with objects gets a pattern. That’s all I can think of at this point. The clutter part is pretty straight forward. There’s, you know, an acquisition is only a best fire at this point. We struggle with them because we felt that current and post hoc positions should be a part of criteria but, oh well, you know, it’s the best fire.
Rebecca: And so now I actually want to look at some of the criteria and to get you to talk through how you make these determinations, and again this is because we’d like to understand if that there are differences in the way that clinicians think about this as opposed to the way patients do. So one of the criteria says that the patient must have persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions, regardless of their actual value. And I guess one of the things we were wondering about is how clinicians make the determination that it has actual value? What makes the value judgement an individual with hoarding disorder makes inappropriate? Um, like, because we can think of many different kinds of value, like monetary value, emotional value, aesthetic value that can be, you know, really subjective. So, um, in a clinician’s area, what do we mean by value?
Interviewee: I would say it doesn’t really matter what you mean by value because it’s regardless of their actual value, so you don’t really care what the actual value is. You just care that the person values them in some way, shape, or form for those various reasons you just mentioned. And as long as the person has trouble letting them go, parting with them, or whatever we decide to call it, you don’t care why. Do you see what I mean? It’s interesting to us to know why, but, you know, monetary values got nothing to do with it, aesthetic value doesn’t have anything to do. It’s whatever they think. They want it. As long as they want it, so be it.
Rebecca: Ok. So people could hoard something that’s, you know, objectively valuable? You know what I mean?
Interviewee: Oh yeah. You could hoard oil paintings.