Interviewer: Mmhmm.
And you’ve talked a lot about the fact that there is a lot of variability in these explanations.
Do you feel like there are consistent subgroups within patients of hoarding disorder that might be useful or do you think that it’s true kind of, you know, not random, but true variability in the sense that it would be difficult to kind of group people?
Interviewee: Well, I think we are interested in trying to do that.
So, my sense is that the people who say things because they, in their minds eye they have a use for it or idea for how they would use it.
Usefulness and utility are a driving force for them.
I would say that I see that behavior more often in men who are collecting broken furniture by the side of the road, stuff of that ilk.
Something that they can take and do something with, and then they don’t because they collect too much of it.
That feels different to me than what I would say is perhaps a traditional gender role in which a number of the women don’t want to part with objects because they remind them of something that’s important to them.
Those two feel different to me in terms of the rationale.
Again, these could be post hoc.
It feels like we might have two relatively distinct groups.
One of which is driven by emotion, and the other is driven by a cognitive process.
Um, I had another example of that in the back of my mind.
What was it?
Um, oh yes.
People who anthropomorphite objects and they feel for these objects, so they feel upset on behalf of the objects that might be wasted or mistreated or whatever.
Kind of like they would be pets.
Um, that too feels a bit different to me, and there are a lot of people who don’t have that feature at all, so that’s probably a minority.
In fact, I’m pretty confident it’s a minority.
But they’re somewhat a unique minority.
So, and how do we deal with that?
And is that harder to change than what you attach your sort of sadness and loss to because guilt goes with that one pretty heavily, and I don’t know if that’s different.
So I think that we’re interested in subgroups.
We haven’t really gotten this close at this stage of the research to investigate in that.
Interviewer: Ok.
So I just want to be respectful of your time.
We are at noon.
We have some more questions for you, but feel free to cut of the interview if at any point you’re…
Interviewee: That’s ok.
Why don’t I stick with you for another ten and let’s see how we do.