Rebecca: Right
Interviewee: Even if we say things for, you know, because we are attached to it. So, uh, I don’t know what drives that and I think, so that’s one that I find interesting and distinctive about hoarding. Uh, the lack of organizational capacity is pretty universal, but there are a few people who hoard who actually can organize quite well and they can organize other people’s stuff, they can’t do it with their own. And I’m, again we’re thinking that is that emotion in the way, is that why they can’t do it, they can’t use higher cognitive function in order to get things from here. Uh, so those are some of the interesting ones, um, you know there are some side features that are sort of interesting. NAME [22:52] called it cutter blindness where you stop seeing things, but I don’t find that essentially unique because all of us who live in our homes, you know once you stash the boxes and the books in the corner, you kind of forget about them because they’re not in your path. So, the fact that they don’t see the clutter anymore is just I think habituation, um, so I wouldn’t go there with it.
Rebecca: What about, do you think that certain kinds of people are more likely to be hoarders? Maybe older or younger people, people of a certain grades, socioeconomic status, or region, or rural or urban. Do you think that…
Interviewee: I don’t. I don’t. I think we got that part of the problem with the variability, it’s a… Both old and young have it. When it’s in the younger population, it just doesn’t show up in quite the same way because somebody else controls the environment, but, uh, as they get… If they got the tendency, they usually have it from a pretty young age, and it’s a tendency to accumulate things and be unable to let them go for whatever reason. So, that’s consistent. Socioeconomic status is huge in the range. They tend to be poorer, partly because [laugh] they’re so disorganized, that they, they don’t organize their lives in order to make good use of many or working capacity. But no, I don’t see any pattern of that ilk. I think the patterns are probably at the cognitive level of that capacity and possibly emotional.