Rebecca: Ok, the last part of the DSM five we’d like you to talk through with us is this part where it says: this difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with describing them. And I guess we’d like you to talk through the determinations of distress and what level of distress is normal and abnormal and whether there are sometimes problems in assessing the levels of distress that hoarders have about discarding, particularly in cases where the patient might have very low insight about their own problem.
Interviewee: Um, the distress associated with discarding it is usually pretty evident, there, they report it freely. Indicate, again, you know, the kinds of oh I’ll feel guilty, oh I’ll feel sad, oh I’ll feel anxious. Some negative emotion will occur if they try to let go of the object. Some people might appear to be able let go freely, but in the back of their mind, they have a plan for how they’re going to recover it, or buy it again, or whatever it is they might do. One might need to double check if there’s no significant emotion displayed, whether or not they have engaged in it, avoidance behavior in order to get to that point. 
Rebecca: Mmhmm. Ok. So, I would like to kind of return to one of the free lists that we made. What we talked about, reasons that people give for their hoarding. Now for you, do you feel like these explanations that people give you for why they save are real reasons or are they kind of justifications for an underlying need?
Interviewee: What a good question. That’s a really good question, and I don’t know the answer to it. Um, again, I’m concerned about the variability in the reasons that people give, and when you have that much variability… So for our anxiety disorders in mental health, you know, when somebody’s got panic, you can rely on emotional features that to help you diagnose the panic. You’re going to get a pretty consistent report of not exactly the same symptoms but, you know, within a narrow range. And for hoarding, there’s just all these multiple emotional states that they report or reasons for saving. So it does make me think that sometimes they make it up. That there’s something about the attachment, and I don’t know if it’s visual. For some people, I’ve seen tactile things, you know, stuff that they can touch, that’s either smooth or soft or whatever. They’re attracted to it, that there’s some much more basic level of attraction or need and they make up a reason to explain it.