Christian: Ok. Ok. Uh so the last kind of full questions that we want to ask are a little bit of a follow up from the Free Listing Prompts that we gave you initially. So, we talked about some of the explanations that people might have for hoarding things, so sentimental reasons or thinking that it needs to go to the right person or having some responsibility for the items. Do you feel that these explanations are just post hoc reasons to justify a pathological need? 
Interviewee: Hmm, uhm that they’ve come up with or that researchers have come up with? 
Christian: Uh. 
Interviewee: For both, I guess?
Christian: I guess both, because I would say that the researchers have come up with these from talking to- 
Interviewee: Mhm. 
Christian: -patients. 
Interviewee: Yeah. Uhm, I don’t think its just a post hoc assessment or way to explain away just a general need. I feel like more people would just explain that they also just feel a need and they don’t know how to explain it; because that will come up in other disorders, where sometimes-- Say people with social anxiety, you know, sometimes they can’t really articulate what they’re worried about, but they feel a lot of fear and they can articulate that, but not what the consequence might be or, you know, the reason they they’re afraid, and same with OCD-- For some people they’re able to articulate the reason but not everyone has a specific reason, they just feel uncomfortable. So, I feel like hoarders would probably also tell you if there was just some unexplainable need that they had to keep things. I think that they probably legitimately do have those concerns that have been talked about in the literature. 
Christian: Ok. Because I, at least in my reading, I haven’t come across individuals with hoarding disorder calling it that- calling it a pathological need. Would you say that you’ve experienced or come into contact with individuals who have described it that way? 
Interviewee: No, and that’s why I’m saying I think that would’ve already come up- like patients would have already talked about that on their own. 
Christian: Yeah. Ok, so kind of to follow up on that, do you feel that cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions during this day-and-age, I guess, play any role in the development of hoarding disorder? 
Interviewee: Uhm, hm. Can you repeat that?