Christian: Ok. Ok. Uhm the next kind of prompt that we have-- So in the DSM-5 its written “This difficulty is due to perceived need to save items and distress associated with discarding them.” So how do you make a determination of how much distress is normal or abnormal? 
Interviewee: Uhm lets see-- Probably based on uhm-- I mean most things that we do in any area of the DSM, we have to do based on kind of like a scale of, you know, no distress at all to extreme distress. And so, it is subjective, of course, to an extent. But if someone says that “well it’s not really difficult for me, it just causes me a little bit of anxiety or a little bit of sadness or a little bit of distress, but it goes away pretty quickly,” then you know, that’s not, you know, that’s not too worrisome. But if it’s that they imagine that the distress that they would experience would be quite high and they don’t wanna, you know, try that out at all- that that would be more problematic. 
Rebecca: Uhm just to jump in—uh sorry Christian-- Just as a follow up to that, sorry-- Also I’m still here, I’m just listening along. Uhm the next part of our interview is going to turn to kind of the question of insight in hoarding disorder; and I kind of wanted to follow up on what you just said to see how that relates to insight. Like, do patients who have less insight about their disorder sometimes have trouble expressing their distress? Or do you have trouble measuring it in those cases? Or is the distress always apparent, as a feature regardless of insight? 
Interviewee: Uhm I think the distress is usually pretty apparent as a feature, like in terms of how bothersome it is for them to actually get rid of something. The insight part, I think, comes more along with like ‘How much does it actually interfere with their lives?’ and ‘How much does it, as a whole, give them the distress having it as a problem?’ Whereas the momentary distress that comes up while discarding is, um I think, is fairly apparent for most people. 
Rebecca: Ok. 
Christian: Ok. Uh so kind of leading into that next section, we wanted to talk a little bit about insight in hoarding disorder so, how do you define insight? 
Interviewee: Well the awareness that someone has into some sort of problematic behavior, I guess. Uhm yeah--Their just general awareness of how much something is problematic and causes them kind of objective- objective problems in their functioning, yeah. 
Christian: Ok. 
Interviewee: And usually that’s like, you know, being objective in comparison to someone else’s point of view.