Interviewer: Ok. Are there certain kinds of people that are more likely to be hoarders: older or younger, different races, socioeconomic backgrounds, rural versus urban?
Interviewee: Sure-- Uhm I mean so the actual-- The actual amount of clutter usually takes a while to accumulate.
And so that once their symptoms are really quite bad- that their- like the clutter itself, then they’re usually older.
But they’ll have the patterns of difficulty discarding or excessive acquisition or either purchasing or passive acquisition of stuff from an early age.
So, it’s more like the problem doesn’t become as interfering until they’re older, but they have it, I would say, more lifetime.
And then you said other things… I mean I’m not, I mean the thing is that most of the research is going to be with Caucasian folks.
It seems like the gender, although more people will come in presenting that are women, its seems like the research is both for women and men, at a little bit more equal numbers I believe.
And I’m not sure really about, yeah, I’m not real sure about race beyond that more research is going to be done with more white folks.
But the socioeconomic stuff, certainly part of the issue is that their hoarding is often going to result in money spent that would ordinarily be spent.
So, they could have financial difficulties because of the hoarding, but I don’t know that I would argue that the financial problems came first.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. Can you think of a specific case or cases that you can remember that were challenging to diagnose because they were on the border between pathological and nonpathological behavior?
And how you were able to make that distinction?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I mean I remember one case from when I was pretty young and in some of the research- like INAUDIBLE- that did the in-office assessments, and the person’s report of their hoarding was pretty severe… even how they were describing when we would go room by room, and then when I went out to their home it wasn’t really all that bad.
The actual clutter itself, it was quite minimal in comparison.
So that person was like more on the cusp, but she made it seem like it was, you know, quite severe.
So, I mean, in that case the in-home assessment was pretty helpful.
Interviewer: Ok.
Kind of in a similar vein, have there been times when people have described things as being very mild, to the point where it’s not an issue and then you do the visit and find that things are much worse?
Interviewee: Usually, let’s see, I think that there have certainly been cases like that, but a lot of the times I don’t end up being able to do in-home visits anymore; that’s because of insurance issues or things like that, or if they live quite a distance.
And so-- But yeah you know-- I’ve definitely gone to places where it’s been a lot harder to travel through, to squeeze through anywhere.
But I mean, especially when I was younger, I could certainly still do it, but I think it was a lot worse.
And sometimes there was, I remember there was concern, where DCF had gotten called in and they-- So I anticipated it would ultimately be bad, but the person was trying to minimize it, I think out of concern about her DCF case.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. So next section of the interview I want to talk to you a little about the DSM-5 criteria for hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Mhm.