Interviewer2: Great.
So, to follow up on that, do you mean awareness of the behavior as the behavior?
Or awareness as an unusual behavior?
Or awareness of the behavior as an unusual behavior that also causes problems for them?
Or both?
Interviewee: Uhm I think it could be both.
I mean, I think that they-- That someone with very poor insight would be on that scale, not even realizing that it would be a problem for everyone or anyone, thinking that “oh basically everyone saves this much stuff” or “everyone has difficulty throwing things out.”
But for people that are slightly more insightful, they would probably recognize that its still problematic, that it still causes them difficulty, like it doesn’t usually cause-- Sorry I’m getting distracted-- Uhm that basically, that they realize that not everyone else does it, but that they don’t think its really that bad or that they don’t see why everyone cares about it so much… that they have a problem.
Interviewer1: Sure, ok.
Thanks.
Interviewer2: Ok.
So, in the literature there’s been kind of a breakdown of the concept of insight and hoarding and the different constructs that may be present more for different individuals.
So, some of those constructs include “defensiveness, anosognosia- or that lack of ability to perceive your illness as reducing your quality of life, overvalued ideations, abnormal beliefs in the value of items, and indifference.”
Do you feel in your experience that any of these factors are more prevalent or more problematic in the individuals you work with, with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uhm can you repeat them?
Interviewer2: Yeah so, “defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideations, and indifference” have been some of the ones sited in the literature as kind of comprised in that insight.
Interviewee: Sure.
Uhm I mean I think that they’re all certainly relevant.
The most ones that I’ve probably seen the most uhm-- I think less so, indifference.
Some-- I think the anosognosia and the overvalued ideation are probably more common with what I see clinically.
But some people definitely have defensiveness; uhm I don’t usually see a whole lot of defensiveness with my actual clients because by that point, they’ve at least are willing to come in.
It might be defensiveness that like a family member discusses when they call to see, but usually those people wouldn’t necessarily make it into treatment with me.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok. And how do you go about explaining hoarding disorder-- How would you, to a patient with low insight?
Interviewee: Uhm really try to hammer home the impairment that they have.
So, the way that they can actually identify as the reasons that they would actually want to reduce the clutter or want to reduce, you know, their acquiring or other things.
Uhm like if their family member won’t bring over, won’t go over, bring their kids over, or if their clutter is preventing them from getting needed repairs or their-- You know the really, kind of- staying on those kinds of features that are really impairing their lives.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And kind of hitting it from that angle, have you found, in your experience, helps patients to be able to gain insight, making that connection to the consequences?
Interviewee: Uhm yeah.
I think for most of them, they get- they have more insight when thinking about the consequences that are tied in with it.