Christian: Ok. Ok, excellent. Thank you so much for your answers to those prompts. Now kind of to move into the next section of the interview, would you mind giving us a little bit about your background related to hoarding disorder? 
Interviewee: Sure. So, my post B.A. work was in- with NAME [00:16:23] and NAME [00:16:24] and NAME [00:16:25] doing some of the early research on separating O.C.D from Hoarding. So, I worked- so, that was kind of my initial training on how to assess hoarding and how to go out to homes.
I worked specifically on an MRI project, primarily an [inaudible 00:16:56], and for that project I did a lot of interview assessments of hoarding to varying other mental health problems; tasks where we would have folks choose, let’s see- they would bring paper items from home and we would scan them, and while they were in the MRI they would choose whether to keep the items or not, or we would shred it while they were in the MRI if they chose to discard it. 
And then, you know, have various tasks related to categorization, related to organizing memory, different stuff like that. Let’s see, and then household assessments of hoarding and discarding tasks and shopping and non-shopping trips, and then-- So that was all before graduate school, and then in graduate school I did some research on perceived deficits of hoarding for my masters and some other smaller projects related to hoarding. And then since I’ve been in post-back and since I’ve been licensed, I have patients that I see with hoarding, and I work with another-someone in Louisiana that specializes in hoarding as well. 
Christian: Ok excellent. So, could you talk to us about-- Well what are some of the most important features of hoarding disorder? You know, what are the most important differences between normal saving behavior, like collecting or something like that, and hoarding disorder? 
Interviewee: Well that they don’t actually have their stuff on display. They don’t really use their items in the way that they’re intended. So, like they may have all sorts of crafting supplies, but then not actually have any place or time to set aside that they use them. And so, it’s usually kind of too much of the materials that they would actually use in a reasonable time-- And like not…yeah, basically that-- Or not having space for it. 
Christian: Are there other really standout features that define hoarding disorder, clinically? 
Interviewee: Uhm standout features, I mean certainly the amount of clutter is going to be-- Like some, like-- Once in a while people will think that they have a bad problem and its really not that cluttered. So usually how they describe [inaudible 00:20:24] hoarding; or if you have home visits and are able to see the mount of clutter; certainly, if they have damage-- Like here there’s a lot more issues with termite damage that will come up, or infestation from bugs, things like that. Certainly, if they have financial problems from it, we’ll indicate if it’s a problem.