Interviewer: Do you think that cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions play any role in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uhm, I mean, probably to an extent.
Probably to an extent that there’s a little bit more of that sense of a need to acquire things.
But, I mean, I also feel like this-- Even, I mean, I also feel like a lot of the stuff that people do save or, you know, passively acquire, aren’t necessarily high-price kind of things that are really, I mean-- I think it can, with the variety of things that are out there, say every different possible kind of pen that someone could buy-- With there being a lot of unique kind of things that people could find, that maybe it increases it a little bit; but, at the same time, I think a lot of people with hoarding are more apt to go after some sort of really special thing, which usually means some sort of older thing rather than a newer thing, uhm, like a vintage kind of thing rather than a brand- lots of brand new stuff.
So, I don’t know how much it really causes a big issue.
But, I mean, I guess certainly, in terms of people’s abilities to acquire new things, with there being stores everywhere and the ability to buy things online and on TV or things like that, certainly can increase.
But, not everyone has that issue with actually acquiring new things that they are paying for, you know, they- a lot of people just passively acquire things.
Interviewer: Ok.
So those that do may experience an increased ability to purchase, but, in terms of the saving, it’s not really the same type of things that are being advertised and associated with value that people with hoarding disorder seem to be collecting.
Interviewee: Right, right.
Interviewer: Ok.
Uh so now you know, we had mentioned in one of the Free Listing Prompts reasons that people might come in for treatment and you mentioned family distress, and financial issues, and trouble with local authorities, so do you feel like their preventing for treatment is normally self-motivated or by others?
Interviewee: A lot of the times its motivated by others.
They might get to a point where they recognize that they can’t do it on their own and then ultimately, they have some motivation in it as well.
I’ve definitely had a lot of folks who have come in, mostly because their family members have really urged them to do so.
They don’t really stay if they are not really willing to do the work.
Interviewer: Yeah.
So how long has the hoarding behavior typically been going on before you see patients?
Interviewee: Usually for at least a couple of decades.
Interviewer: Wow.
Interviewee: But not necessarily to that extent where its always been that severe, like the actual clutter.
The collecting [INAUDIBLE], you know, and the-- Some clutter that’s contained by parents and things like that, and some of the behaviors are present when they’re young; but they’re not necessarily so problematic in other people’s eyes that they’re going to be coming in for treatment or going to be bugged about how bad it is.