Interviewer: Ok. Ok. Uh well, that is just about all the questions that we have for you.
The last thing that we wanted was, if you could tell us, you know, what do you think are some of the biggest things that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Uh let’s see, I mean I think- I mean I think some of the- I think the research-- I know, I know that the research that you often are able to do in a graduate program, or something like that, with more subclinical folks-- That was more of an issue of how do you identify people when they’re earlier on?
When they have some of the difficulties, but they don’t yet have the full fledge clutter problem.
Then, how can you convince them-- Because then they’re kind of not likely to have so much of that interference at that point.
So how do you convince them that its worthy of their time to try and nip it in the bud, rather than wait until it gets much worse?
Interviewer: Ok.
Yeah, no definitely.
Interviewee: And I guess if there’s other ways to identify people earlier on and to be shorter interventions, things like that, with college students or younger-- I mean with the college students and younger, its largely that their parents are containing their stuff, or their size of their dorm room is containing their stuff.
And so, I guess maybe discussing it earlier in life with parents who have kids who are pack rats, or who that they describe as pack rats, or who have always had really messy rooms and have difficulty deciding which stuffed animals to get rid of, or things like that.
Interviewer: Yeah ok.
Well thank you so much for agreeing to talk with us.
I think we definitely got a lot of good insight from you, and we appreciate you taking time out of your day to help us out with this project.
Interviewee: Yup, no problem.
Good Luck with it.
Interviewer: Yeah, just right before you go, are there any other people that you think its important that we talk to as part of this project that you might want to give us?
Interviewee: Uhm, yeah, I mean well I forwarded it to-- Well I don’t really know who is all going to be available-- I don’t know how much-- Most of the people that I know of, are the ones that are probably going to have some similar thoughts or that are from the same kind of group of people; but [NAME]  or [NAME]  might have some opinions.
The woman that I work with, [NAME] , she does a lot of stuff with children of hoarders.
But I don’t know how available those folks are either.
Interviewer: Ok.
Alright.
Thank you.
If we needed to, do you think you would be able to- would it be alright if we emailed you for those names for email addresses-
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: - so that we’d be able to get in touch with them?
Interviewee: Sure.
Interviewer: Ok.
Alright.
Thank you so much, again, and we really appreciate it.
Enjoy the rest of your day.
Interviewee: You’re welcome.
Take care.
Interviewer: Aright.
Bye.