Christian: Ok. So, the next phrase that we have for you is “the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.” So how much stuff counts as cluttered space? 
Interviewee: Sure. So, I would say if it can’t be removed from the space in a few minutes then, like I mean, to at least be relocated to another space. So, if there’s a bunch of stuff on a coffee table it might take them… it might take a normal person, I don’t know, 20 or 30 minutes to actually sort through everything and like get- put everything in its complete proper place; but it would probably only take two or three minutes for them to move it to another location-- Whereas, or a minute to move it to another location if they didn’t have the opportunity to sort through all of -- Whereas someone who’s hoarding if they-- The volume of it would be a lot more, that it would take more time to even just move it even without sorting through it. 
Christian: Ok. 
Interviewee: So that, I guess, is part of it. 
Christian: Ok. Does home-size play into this at all? 
Interviewee: Uhm, sure. I mean, I mean-- Well yes, yes to an extent. So, like certainly we should be generally living in a space that-- We should be kind of modifying the amount of stuff that we have to fit in the space that we have. However, obviously people, you know, need bigger houses at points. So probably, if you think about, I don’t know, each person having a certain amount of personal-- A certain number, I guess, rooms per person or something, is a reasonable estimate for what the amount of space is appropriate. I don’t know exactly, but say a bedroom, or so, per person would probably be appropriate for the amount of space that they might utilize. When it’s a three-bedroom house and its just for one person, that’s probably a little too much unnecessary space-- That they’re not keeping their possessions down. 
[cross talk]
Interviewee: Usually most people have a storage area of some sort. 
Christian: Yeah. Yeah. So, for healthy individuals there is some degree of variance of the free space that they like in their home. So, for example… 
Interviewee: Sure. 
Christian: Some people might want to have a clear desk while others prefer to have things out and ready to use on the desk. Do you think hoarding disorder could be just an extension of this variance that surpasses a socially acceptable threshold? 
Interviewee: Well but it’s no longer productive. Like with your example, then people would be able to actively- to easily access their things on their desk to use them. But with someone with hoarding it’s going to be a lot more difficult to actually find the item that they are looking for.