Christian: Have you had to apply this criterion with the intent of diagnosing someone with hoarding disorder? 
Interviewee: Uhm yes. 
Christian: Ok. Are there things about the DSM-5 criteria that are sometimes challenging, you know, elements that you regard as difficult to apply, or might apply differently to different clinicians, things to do with language perhaps? 
Interviewee: Uhm I don’t have it-- I don’t have the language right in front of me, but because I think that that was how I was trained, was with what ultimately ended up being the DSM-5 criteria, or pretty close to it, I generally just, I guess like it in comparison to the DSM-4. I feel like it’s a lot more clear to be able to diagnose, so I don’t have any big concerns about it. 
Christian: Ok. Ok. So next we want to ask you some questions about the way that you think about specific things related to the DSM-5 criteria. So, I’m going to read you a phrase that we have from the criteria, and then I want to know a little bit more about your thought process as you apply two different patients. So, one of the phrases is “persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions, regardless of their actual value.” 
Interviewee: Mhm. 
Christian: So, with that, how do you go about determining value? What makes the value judgement of an individual with hoarding disorder as inappropriate? 
Interviewee: Sure, well I mean, there are some cases that are very clear cut-- If it’s actually like garbage or, you know, food waste or things like that. Obviously, it’s much more clear cut and there are many items that are pretty inexpensive, like you know, that are less than a few dollars or less than a dollar that they have a bunch of-- I think that would be lower value, things that most people would probably discard unless they had an immediate plan for it, like things like toilet paper rolls or stuff like that-- Most people are going to get rid of, unless they have a certain art project that they’re going to use it for in the next couple of months or something. 
Christian: Ok. 
Interviewee: So yeah, I mean mostly value. I think most people would probably agree that things are of a lower value like with under a few dollars or less than dollar, ideally. 
Christian: And so that value, to you, kind of more means a monetary value as opposed to emotional or aesthetic value? 
Interviewee: Sure. I mean the emotional or aesthetic value-- Let’s say it’s greeting cards or something, where it’s from someone who is very much in their life and, you know, they have every expectation that they will continue to receive cards from them. I mean, most people might save a special card or two, but not every card that they’ve gotten from the person. So that has a little bit more of when there’s a sentimental value. How many items are you keeping? Do you need to keep every single one versus, you know, one or two things that remind you of the person? 
Christian: Ok. So, at that point it’s not necessarily the inappropriate value judgement, so much as the amount that they have of that item? 
Interviewee: Yeah.