Christian: Ok. And how aware are typical patients that they have hoarding disorder when you first see them? And how did that, kind of, change over time? 
Interviewee: So, in terms of the actual-- I’d say both with treatment and in research, people are at least somewhat aware that its problematic and that that’s what it is. That when they read about it or when its explained to them, they kind of agree that “oh yeah, this makes sense, that is just what it’s like for me.” So yeah, they probably-- But some people definitely don’t really totally connect with it at first. 
Christian: So, we talked a little bit about the role that family and friends play in bringing in people for treatment sometimes, or kind of triggering that drive to seek help. Are there specific relatives that are more often involved than others, in your experience? 
Interviewee: Often times, adult children or-- Like usually spouses don’t seem to be so- well like, the spouses often are either not that bothered by it or have their own kind of problems with it, to some extent. And its oftentimes close family members, like a sibling or a child- usually once they’re an adult, are the ones I’d say are most common; because most other family members you can more easily keep at bay, where they’re not coming into their house, necessarily. 
Christian: Yeah, yeah. That makes sense. And so, do you feel that like these family members, you said often the adult children, what role do you think they play in arriving at that diagnosis of hoarding disorder? What maybe that you confer with initially to learn the extent of things or…
Interviewee: Uhm, you know often times if someone- especially if someone isn’t totally on board with it, then they’re coming in with someone else- with a family member perhaps, or the family member might call and make the initial inquiries. And so, the children are often going to be the ones who do that. And sometimes, you know, people just want to know how they talk to their parent or how do they-- Once in a while it will be the parents of the hoarder, but that’s not as common especially cause their parents are likely- you know, by the time it gets really bad, the parents may not even be living anymore depending uhm… 
Christian: Yeah. But it seems like the social surrounding of the individual does play a really strong role in either coming in for treatment or the driver behind them seeking help. So, it does seem like a fairly important part of arriving at this diagnosis for the individual or beginning treatment for an individual. 
Interviewee: Right, yeah.