Interviewer: Ok, are there things that might cause a patient to fail to gain insight?
Interviewee: Uhm, if they feel like you’re- so some people really don’t like the label of hoarding.
And so sometimes that can cause problems if they have more of an issue with the concept in general.
Or not seeing that-- Thinking that you’re calling- saying they have a problem that looks like the very worst of what hoarding can look like, that can cause issues.
Then if they are not able to kind of see that their problem doesn’t have to look exactly like everyone else’s problems- that they may be more resistant, I guess, into those concerns.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. For the next section, we want to talk about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder might have for their behaviors.
So we want you to think through a couple of the questions that we have from the Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale, and in your experience, think about how your patients might respond to these questions.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer: So, the first one that we have is What do you think has caused you to have these behaviors?
Do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?
Interviewee: Uhm, and just like, freely what their answer would be, or do you have the answers?
Interviewer: No.
What you think and- yeah.
Interviewee: Uhm I think that some people would definitely recognize that it’s a little bit of a biological trait, in that their family members have had issues, even if they-- I think they recognize that it’s not necessarily just that they had-- They were in their surroundings growing up, but that they, and like, they have learned it from them, but also that some of its inherited.
Interviewer: Ok.
Ok. So if they’ve been in their environment, they’re more likely to understand that its biological, but if not they may not make that connection?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I mean, if they don’t have any family members, uhm then the genetics-- The biological component may be harder for them to really have that insight over.
They may recognize that, at least that they struggle emotionally with feeling negative emotions, and that may be a reason why they have the problem like in that-- That that being more like a general problem than necessarily a hoarding-specific one, with the difficulty with negative emotions.
Interviewer: Ok so if it wasn’t a biological cause, they might have more of a psychological reason and understanding of their problem.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: Uh the next question that we wanted to ask you how patients might respond is How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding them?
Interviewee: Uhm, I don’t feel like there’s been a lot of people who have really felt like something horrible would happen besides-- I would say the horrible thing would be that they would feel unhappy, that they would feel uncomfortable.
Uhm more so than some other catastrophic outcome would come up from it.