Interviewer 2: Can you hear me?
Interviewer 1: Hello?
yes
Interviewer 2: Yes.
Ok cool.
So, I just merged the calls.
Uhm I’m just trying to pull up the consent forms just because I don’t have that.
So, give me a second.
Interviewer 1: Ok I’m just heading back to the conference hotel for lunch so I’m just going to use my phone for the first five minutes and then when I get there I should be able to [inaudible 00:].
Interviewer 2: Ok.
Interviewer 1: I’m here I’m listening and if I…if you need something from me ill speak up, but I just don’t want to get those [inaudible 00:].
Interviewer 2: Ok sounds good.
Interviewer 1: And the wind and stuff ok?
Interviewer 2: Alright cool
Interviewer 1: Cool.
Talk to you… I’ll let you know… I’ll let you know when I’m unmuted.
Ok bye.
Interviewer 2: Ok.
I’m going to get her on the phone here in a minute.
Interviewer 1: Yeah, I’ll be here.
I’m listening.
Interviewer 2: Alright cool.
Bye.
Interviewer 2: Alright sorry about that.
I’ve added my colleague to the other line, Interviewer 1 Henderson.
She’s not going to be speaking for a few minutes because she realized that she’s in a really noisy area.
And so, she’s trying to get to a place where she can, uh, minimize some of that background noise… [inaudible 00:].
Interviewee: Sure thing.
Interviewer 2: Uhm in the meantime, if you’d like to get started, the first thing I’d like to do is go through a…an informed consent that we have with you.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer 2: Would that be alright?
Interviewee: Sure
Interviewer 2: Ok.
So, you’re volunteering to participate in a research projected conducted by NAME  from the UNIVERSITY .
The aim of the study is to better understand the ways that researchers and clinicians think about hoarding disorder.
You’ll be one of approximately thirty people being interviewed for this research.
Your participation is volunteer, you will not be paid for your participation
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer 2: There is no direct benefit to you, and you may withdraw or discontinue at any time.
If you decline to participate in this study, no one will be told.
Uh… if you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview session, you have the right to decline to answer any question or end the interview.
The interview will last approximately 60 minutes, and we will take some notes during the interview as well.
And all your record of the interview will be…uh and subsequent dialogue, will be made.
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer 2: If you don’t want to be recorded, you will not be able to participate in this study.
The recording will be transcribed, and all information that could identify you will be removed from that transcription.
Then, audio recording will be destroyed.
Uh… researchers, myself and Interviewer 1 will not identify you by name in any reports using information from this interview, and your confidentiality will remain secure.
Subsequent use of records and data will be subject to standard data use policies which protect anonymity of individuals and institutions.
This precaution will prevent your individual comments from having any negative repercussions.
Do you have any questions about any of that?
Interviewee: Uh nope!