Interviewee: Let me say, well, can we hold on before I answer that? I'm just looking at my calendar, so I'm actually okay to go for another half an hour if you guys want to power through, but if you need to go we can wrap up.
P2: I'm okay for another half hour, I don’t know about you [NAME].
P1: I could do that as well.
P2: Okay, well good, let’s keep going.
Interviewee: Yeah, lets maybe do that because, uh, its uh, its going to be a really busy next couple of weeks for me so, um yeah, okay, perfect. So insight is really--
P2: Yeah.
Interviewee: Sorry. I'm just jumping.
P2: No. Go, go for it.
Interviewee: So, so insight is very interesting because, obviously, it's, like, the- I don’t get that I have a problem, and its so not on my radar, and the extremes of that we have squalor and animal hoarding, but I really think of those as, kind of, being something kinda different. Like, it just kind of feels very different, um, almost a little bit more like psychosis. Um, your more garden variety hoarding disorder patient will also have variable insight, but the thing that I find so fascinating about that insight, is that it is so variable, and its like this floating insight, an it think that it we don’t have a good way of defining what exactly it is. Like, we haven’t fully operationalized what we mean by insight and, you know, there’s the part where it like, ‘Yeah I know I have a issue and I can acknowledge that but I really like my stuff and so you push too much on my stuff, um, I'm going to push back again with that.’ right? ‘like, I'm not going to fully agree with you.’ uh, it's that part where they kind of stick their heels in the mud, and it’s a hard forward, and is that because the really don’t get it, or is it because they feel like, 'why are you pushing me like that?' Uh, those are two very different things, right? So, certainly what I'm working on with patients clinically is-- and when I'm supervising, um, the groups-- I think it gets really tricky to be able to kind of roll with that, and I think about it the same way I think about insight for someone who is struggling with an eating disorder, or a substance abuse problem, which is that is variable and floating.