Interviewee: I would be super interested in that, um, and-- and very much game and, so yeah, even also in sifting through these interviews, if I can be help for that-- especially since you know NAME (1:55:02) will be providing more of like an MD perspective-- and then I would be providing more of like a psychology, uh, clinical psychologist perspective. So that could be helpful in that. 
P2: That be INAUDIBLE (1:55:13) when we get to the data analysis stage, that would be very very helpful I think. 
Interviewee: Yeah, and then the the last piece that I’ll say that we can kind of, like you know, file away an-- and remember for the the the future is that-- um you know, if you do end up going towards the like, patient interviews, um, that’s the part where I also, you know, I don’t have-- I have three graduate students who are working with me, um, but I have an army of undergraduates, and some of them are the ones that do the hoarding groups, um, and so there they know about hoarding. They’re trained and also they are clinically very adaptive because I selected them for the group, so we could also think about that. They may be able to help with the interviews. That would be like a concrete way. 
P2: Yeah, that would be helpful, and we’ve also kind of wondered-- and this is perhaps another issue for another day. Um, we’ve wondered how difficult it would be to recruit hoarders for these interviews, um, and have thought about perhaps seeing if we could recruit collaborators to help us find hoarders to interview. So if you would be game, um, for that kind of role of collaboration with us as well, we can talk about that. You know we’d have to obviously figure it out before logistically and in terms of the IRB, um, but, um, that might also be helpful, depending on how our recruitment goes. 
Interviewee: Yeah, for sure, for sure, absolutely, yeah and I mean you guys are just up the road so-- um so yeah. 
P2: INAUDIBLE (1:56:51) speaking yeah. 
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s great. Well nice to make contact, and nice to meet you guys. 
P1: Yeah, definitely. 
P2: Yeah, and thank you so much again for your time with the interview. We-- I think-- both enjoyed it and appreciated you your insight. 
Interviewee: Yeah, sorry if I was long winded. 
P2: No, no, no, not at all. Um, its great and-- it's great that there are you know um, there is definitely a spectrum to which degree people are kind of engaging with these issues, and so we’ve had interviews with people who are relatively unwilling to engage and are like-- of like, ‘Why are you asking these questions?’ and then we have other people who are like, ‘Yes, I think about this all the time.’ and it's always gratifying to have that, and we always get a lot out of them. Um. 
Interviewee: Oh cool. 
P2: We appreciate your time, and thank you. 
Interviewee: You're so welcome. 
P2: And we’ll be in touch over time to follow up with the next steps. 
Interviewee: That sounds great. 
P2: Thank you so much for your time again. 
Interviewee: Okay, bye, bye. 
P2: Take care, bye.