P1: Um, you kind of mentioned something that leads into a second question that we have, that relates to space. Uh, so, for healthy individuals even, there is a degree of variance in the amount of space that you like in your home. So, some might like to have a clear desk, while others might prefer to have things out and ready to use. Do you feel like hoarding disorder could be an extension of that variance that surpasses the acceptable threshold? You know, we had another interviewer say, ‘Some people just want to be surrounded by their things.’, and live more cave like, if you will. You mentioned that word.
Interviewee: Yeah, totally. I think it's a spectrum. I don’t think we are looking at an extreme taxon here.
P2: Hm.
P1: Hm, okay. Um.
P2: Um.
P1: Go ahead [NAME].
P2: Okay. The last criterion-- Yeah, just to-- I think we’ll wrap up the questions we had about the DSM five, and then we’ll get another time on your calendar, if that’s okay. Um, the last criteria we wanted to have to talk through, for us, was the just the difficulties with the perceived need to save the items, and the distress associated with discarding them, and we wanted to talk about how you determine the distress with this disorder. How do you determine how much distress with discarding is normal or abnormal? Is it a grey area, and, in particular, is a grey area for patients that might have low insight, and not really be aware of how difficult they have-- um, the difficulties they have with discarding?
Interviewee: Um, I think it probably becomes a grey area for sub-clinical folks, but I, I usually don’t find it so grey for people who definitely have hoarding disorder.
P2: Mhm.
Interviewee: Um, I think that [INAUDIBLE].
P2: INAUDIBLE  Go ahead.
Interviewee: The part when I'm training, like, you know, my super newbie graduate students is that they have it in their mind that distress comes in, like, one form. So we do have to talk about that distress can come in the guise as anger, can come in the guise and anxiety, can come in the guise as, like, grief. You know, there’s, like, a range of emotion that can reflect or capture that distress, and as long as you are, kind of, thinking about it in that perspective, then, you know, then I think that the other part that probably is, when it does, kind of, start to get tricky, is when they haven’t been exposed to having to discard, right? Like, it has not occurred to them that they need to get rid of anything, um, and so they haven’t really elicited the distress, um, in any sort of concrete way.
P2: Um, yeah, so, that kind of is leads us to our next topic but I think we finally should stop before we move into our next larger issue um which we wanted to talk about was insight and what insight means and what relation with these patients but I think kind of to be respectful to everybody's time but to also save a little bit of time for um just closing up the interview let's stop there and then maybe we can find another time to get on your calendar if that’s okay with you
P1: Yeah.
Interviewee: Sure yeah, no, that works.
P1: I think that the question is- kind of, moving forward now is, how we might want to collaborate on this project. How we might move forward.