Interviewee: Yeah, one thing where that’s different, I think, like, the one exception for that, is that we have a lot of patients that are really worried about, like, the environment, and not wanting to be wasteful, but it's, it's not tied to the specific object, but it's more because they have a really strong belief that, to be good citizens of this world-- 
Interviewer2: And they might have more [INAUDIBLE] something will happen if I let this object go. 
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer1: Yeah okay, um, so now there’s another question that we kind of already discussed, about, uh, postdoc reasons and, um, something else that you’ve already mentioned. That is another question that we wanted to ask is, do you think that cultural forces-- that associating back to values and self worth, consumption and material possessions, play any role in the development of hoarding disorder? What kind of role do you think that plays?
Interviewee: Ah man, I don’t know. I don’t know. I think it obviously has to be part of it, and, you know, as the world is changing-- but, you know, hold on. Let me give you guys an example of why I always get stuck on this. Um, I was speaking with a woman who just completed a stent with doctors without borders, and so she's working in like rural Ethiopia, and this woman came to her clinic and was, um, crying and really, really upset, and was like ‘Nobody can help me with my husband.’. Um, and- and it’s the way that it works in that part of Ethiopia. Two level homes, and basement. The ground floor is where all the animals would stay at night, so all the goats and what not wouldn’t be picked off by wild animals. Um, so then the family lives up on the second level, and so, with one woman went on to describe the fact that her husband is collecting all sorts of, like, containers, and like, extra clothing pieces, and potential building supplies, and, like, all of this stuff that when it was described to me sounds sure a lot like what my patients tend to acquire, um, and collect and save. Um, and, and he basically filed the entire bottom level of their home, and so the reason she was upset was that they had already had like three of their goats killed, because they were no longer within the protection of the-- of the home, and so is, is because of materialism? When you obviously have to have access to stuff, right? So, but, we live in a world where even if your on, like, a deserted island, you could start to collect coconut shells or whatever. I don’t know. I-- I don’t know. I don’t know. Not a concrete answer, but I think that’s the big question that we have.
