P2: That’s really interesting. Um so, we want to talk a little bit more about a couple of the things that you said. Um so, one of the things that you mentioned that we’ve been thinking about is, kind of, the way you could, or might, operationalize inside of this population, um, and we listed a paper that had, kind of, broken down the the different constructs that are, and we wanted you to just, kind of, talk through the extent that you think that these constructs are useful with your patients. So, I’ll just read you the list an, and we can go through them one by one, or you can talk about any one of them that you think is more or less interesting. So, the constructs that we listed were defensiveness, um, agnosia, which is just like a lack of ability to perceive the illness or whether something is wrong,  overvalued ideation, which is the persistent and unreal belief in the potential value of items indifferent, and indifference is the last one. So, defensiveness, agnosia, overvalued ideation, and indifference. Um, so just thinking through those as potential, kind of, pieces or parts of insight, do you think that any of them are more or less important in this disorder, um, for different qualifications-- different times, and how would you use those ideas to come up with a more concrete idea of insight?
Interviewee: What paper is that? That’s great.
P1: Um, I think it’s uh a [INAUDIBLE] from, uh, I-- I can’t remember.
Interviewee: Oh, of course it is [NAME]. 
P2: Yeah. 
Interviewee: I’ll have to read that again. Um, I think defensiveness and overvalued ideation are relevant across the board. I think indifference can be relevant and, and that part about, just, have a complete-- like, you're just really not able to recognize that it’s a problem. Yeah, I think that’s really relevant for something like squalor or animal hoarding, and I guess it could also be relevant for object hoarding. It just I think less common. 
P2: Uhuh, and, kind of, thinking through again, um, the process of gaining, and the patients being-- maybe being at different levels of insight at different times. Do you think that theses different kind of insight are relevant at all to that idea?
Interviewee: Yeah, because like, the defensiveness-- like, if you are tapping on something, or like, I guess, I think of the defensiveness as, kind of, going along with the control idea, um, I guess, maybe, just something that just isn’t capturing so well is-- I do think is an issue with some patients-- is, that they don’t have the same definition for what is a clean home, or what’s, like, an uncluttered space. So those would be, like, patients who your showing them a clutter image rating, and they’re like, ‘Oh my god! Look at this room! That’s a nine. This is horrible. How could somebody live like that?’, and then you ask them what their living room looks like, and their like, ‘Oh, it think it might be like a seven.’ and it like, [INAUDIBLE].
P2: [INAUDIBLE] most people don’t live at a seven. 
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE] don’t live at seven but, like, seven and a nine aren’t really that different to me, so--
P2: So, that’s another aspect of insight that is represented here is kind of seeing their behavior, um, on a scale of normal. 
Interviewee: Yeah.