Interviewee: Yeah, you know, we intentionally made this list to not be one of the diagnostic criteria for hoarding disorder because it's not a quiz you know, so I guess what were what we are trying to get at with this question is exactly that like what do you how would you really know if you knew about hoarding disorder what would it look like. So um, it might be appropriate to include it on the list even though it's technically not a diagnostic criteria, and you know, we have.
Interviewee: Yeah [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer2: Anecdotally we’ve heard that from other providers as well.
Interviewer1: Mhm.
Interviewer2: Those exact features.
Interviewee: Yeah, and you know the other piece I would also say is that um these patients like in some ways they also have a little more of a feeling like somebody with a personality disorder, and I don’t, I don’t, mean that in like a negative kind of stigma way that people sometimes take that. What I mean is there is just to something about its really unique about these patients is that whole issue of wanting and maintaining control um, and, and, that’s where you know, I joke we do we run groups down here and more as a service to the community because there’s nobody else who provides treatment for hoarding in CITY, and um, and just because I’m I don’t have that much personnel down here, and so I I've trained some of our senior undergraduate students to help kind of facilitate these groups, and hoarding patients love them, and I always joke about the fact that they love them more than they love talking to me talking to be the quote on quote hoarding expert um, and theses this aspect where they feel like their contributing to that students educations, and that then directly feeds back to their sense of their own value, and then they are more invested in that versus.
Interviewer2: That’s interesting input.
Interviewee: If you know we have some of and in fact I think, the undergrads do better that some of my graduate students especially the graduate students who come from having done like a social anxiety group or even like a OCD group where you know, its much more kind of didactic. Where it's like ‘well today were going to be doing our exposure and this is how exposures work now let’s design your exposure and let’s go do it’ and the patients like ‘okay’ [LAUGHING] you know?
Um, and with hoarding it's more like you know, if they use that style you just get a bunch of patients that are just like sticking their feet in the mud and like ‘yeah I don’t know about this’, but then if you make it feel like it's part of their idea or you know, make them feel like they were really part of contributing to these patients training um, then they do better with that. Also not an easy list response I'm sorry.
Interviewer2: [LAUGHING] No, its okay. Its very interesting.
Interviewee: I'm bad at listing [LAUGHING].
Interviewer2: Go ahead. Let's just get through your last prompt, and then I'm really looking forward to the rest of the interview because I have so many questions but don’t want to derail you.