Interviewer1: Yeah, okay. Okay, um, so, the next section that we wanted to move in to was, kind of, on a related note, and we wanted to talk about some of the explanations that some patients have for their behavior with hoarding disorder. With their patients we wanted you to think through some of the questions from the adopted version of that brown assessment of belief deal, and we want you to, kind of, think, from the patient’s perspective, how your patients would respond to some of these questions. So, the first one that we have was, what do you think has caused you to have these behaviors? Do you think these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause? How do you think your patients, or the research subjects that you see, would reply to those to that question?
Interviewee: Uh, I think that, that-- I think it differs depending on the education level the patients have. You could get some pretty different answerer to that question. Um, but, I think that the general answer that most of my patients would say is that, ‘I've always liked stuff. I don’t know where that came from but I've always liked it.’. 
Interviewer2: And you think that that changes over the course of coming to understand they really have a disorder? Or do you think that that is pretty constant? Um, I guess what I'm trying to get at is, do you think that the process of getting insight changes this?
Interviewee: Um, I don’t know if insight would change that answer. I mean certainly if they-- 
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewee: Been through our group, and we’ve told them that it is, you know, we-- we find that a lot of our patients feel a lot of relief, um, from having been told that there’s a lot of this-- you know, that notion about, you had a lot of cards in the deck that, kind of, predisposed you to developing this, um, they feel really relieved by that. 
Interviewer1: Hm okay. The next question that we wanted to ask was, if you had to asked patients who argue that they need to keep these things, that something bad will come from discarding them, how do you think they would respond to that?
Interviewee: Well, that sounds like a very OCD focused question. That’s maybe the researcher commenting on that. I think a lot of our patients, if we were to ask them about that, like, something bad will happen. I think that if our patients have OCD hoarding, then they will be like ‘yes’, and then, if they have hoarding because of hoarding disorder, they’d be like, ‘What do you mean something bad is going to happen? Well, maybe, I mean, I don’t want to be wasteful’. But, I think that question won't make as much sense to them. Like, if I were to ask you guys, ‘Why do you, you know, keep your old note, or why do you keep a card that, you know, your partner gave you on your last anniversary, like, are you afraid that something bad will happen if you get rid of it?", it be like, well, no I'm keeping it because I value it. 
Interviewer2: So, that kind of fear or anxiety based, for you, are a big part of the difference between OCD hoarding and hoarding.
