Interviewer2: That is really interesting. I will be really interested to hear what you find. Um, just kind of concretely how do you operationalize that in terms of when you look at a patent in front of you and you have to make that determination? How do you make it clinically?
Interviewee: You mean like differentiating between the collector and the--
Interviewer2: Mhm or the clutter the cluttered person who you know, um, who has a lot of stuff versus a hoarder versus somebody who has difficulties discarding, but as you said maybe doesn’t have control over their space. How do you when you're sitting with a patient um, and you're not sure how do you determine if their saving behavior is normal or abnormal?
Interviewee: Mhm yeah, I think, I mean, uh, partially what we want to do with this data is to try to get better at differentiating that. So they way we recruited for that study was to use really strict exclusion inclusion criteria. If you’re in the hoarding group you have to meet for DSM five criteria for hoarding disorder. Okays, so it's pretty strict how we define that inclusion with the healthy controls. You have to have to not meet that diagnosis and you have to be below the means of that SIR. Okay, so with in the like normative healthy range of on the saving inventory revised, and then for the collectors the only criteria we used for them was that they could not meet the criteria for hoarding disorder which most of them did not meet for two reasons one they didn’t have the clutter and then two they had difficulties discarding but only with respect to the thing they collected. Let me tell you there are so many weird collections out there [LAUGHING]. That alone was fascination um, like they guy who collected fire hydrants he had a hard time he had extreme difficulty discarding his fire hydrants [LAUGHING], but he did not have a difficulty discarding anything else.
Interviewer2: Okay, so perhaps these is INAUDIBLE making this distinction. There is an element of knowing being able to value some things over others.
Interviewee: Mhm, but we’ll see if that holds true right because we’re going to look at the data dimensionally and, and, I would not characterize collectors a healthy.
Interviewer2: Great, so perhaps it’s a spectrum as well.
Interviewee: Yeah, for sure, and, and, ya know, that’s good. That’s we did a INAUDIBLE study on hoarding, and it at least looking at the least and looking at difficulties discarding and clutter. It is a dimension.
Interviewer2: Great.
Interviewee: Tts is a spectrum. It's not that there is a latten taxon on hoarding versus non hoarding.
Interviewer2: Great, okay, what about in terms of demographics of patients with hoarding disorder. What do they tend to look like when you think of a hoarder? When you picture them what would they typically be just in terms of oh age, race, economic status, perhaps region background, if they are real or urban?
Interviewer2: Um, I'm laughing because these are all complicated questions um, and I'm not talking to the media, so I'm not trying to be INAUDIBLE.
Interviewer2: Yeah, and it’s a confidential interview, so don’t be like I said the idea is to gage where people, where the field is, and what we know right now what we what are INAUDIBLE.
Interviewee: Yeah, no, no, no, I understand.
Interviewer2: Well, we don’t need an evidence based citation for what you're about to say.