Interviewee: I don’t, I don’t-- the hoarding depression distinctions-- that difficult. I think that’s pretty easy, um, but the one that I think does get a little bit tricky is, if they have OCD and hoarding, um, and being able to, like, tease apart which hoarding behavior is linked to OCD, verses what is linked to hoarding disorder. I think that gets a little bit tricky.
Interviewer1: We had a participant like that yesterday actually, [INAUDIBLE] that you mentioned that it is very challenging.
Interviewee: Yeah, interesting. Mhm.
Interviewer2: Mhm [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE] What I say to my students is that if you go back to why are they saving, why are they attached to the objects? Then, I think, it becomes a little clearer. It just depends on how much insight the patient has give you answers to that, if it comes down to they just like their stuff, you know, then it's pretty clear its hoarding.
Interviewer2: Um, mhm, [NAME] do you want to move into the DSM five questions?
Interviewer1: Yeah, okay.
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer1: Yeah, exactly. So you had brought up the DSM five criteria, and we actually have some specific questions that. We want to ask you about the specific elements in the DSM five criterion, and how you imply them and employ them in your practice and your research. So, uh, the first phrase that we wanted to mention was persistent difficulty discarding or parting possession, regardless of their values, and so, with this, we, kind of, wanted to get you how you’re deeming value and what makes the values judgment a hoarding patient makes inappropriate?
Interviewee: Um, I mean, so the way that we usually-- first, we always ask if they have any difficulties with discarding, um, objects or belongings, and if the person says yes to that we always ask for examples. Um, what are the types of things you have difficulties discarding, and, um, if someone were to say-- my Faberge eggs or, I don’t know, whatever. My-- you know, my eighteen hundreds stamp collection. Um, then we would ask the follow up question: Are there any other types of objects you have a hard time letting go of? Um, so, I thick there is a very obvious aspect of value that has to do with, just, in general, with most people think that that something you should hang on to, um, and, and if not, then, I-- kind of, seeing how extensive it is-- like, are there multiple objects? Um, I think that’s really, kind of, the crux. It's not only that they have a hard time discarding, um, baggies for-- or, the only have a hard time discarding take out containers. Like, a hoarding patient has difficulties discarding a range of objects, and, again, that threshold for how many of these objects they have is tends to be a lot higher then-- yes, I sometimes save takeout containers as well, but I have, maybe, like, two of them, versus, you know, so many that you have this cluttered living space.
Interviewer2: Mhm.