Interviewee: Oh okay, well NAME is a social work. Um, she works at the unit- social work PHD and works at the UNIVERSITY um, and she does a lot of qualitative work and um, and, and, I think, its uh provides such a richer nuanced kind of perspective um, that then from there you can go on to use that knowledge that, that, rich data that you gather to develop something that is a little more quantitative but tis more kind of informed quantitative. Right, um, it's not just whatever I'm envisioning and coming up with. Um, so, so, initially what I have been thinking about it's that it would be interesting to kind of even just think about a case sample of uh, you know, yes the experts but then you know like a first year medical resident would be really interesting person to kind of think through ‘have you heard of hoarding?’, ‘is that something you would think about asking about?’, um, ‘why do you think that would matter?’. You know, like all that type of stuff. Um, you know, somebody who's going into social work who have not had exposure to hoarding which is ninety percent of social workers out there just because it's not taught in the curriculum. Uh you know, your average kind of researched based clinical psychologist um, you know, same thing on that end um, and then from there thinking though like where are our gaps is it dissemination about information about hoarding?
Um, but then also how could that impact the patients care and patient health care seeking behavior. I guess, um yeah so that just kind of some of my initial thoughts, so maybe we can circle back um after the interview. What do you guys think?
P2: Yeah.
P1: Yeah.
P2: Um, just to kind of build off that before we move into the interview, and I agree I think, that we have a lot of interest in common it would be interesting to me to think about. I had not even thought about it until just now using our interviews to develop a survey and then kind of doing a wider survey, but that’s uh, that could be that could be a productive use of our data in the future once were done with the interviews to kind of say okay what do we want to ask about un in the survey and how do we want to phrase questions. That might be something to talk about also um, but yeah, let's circle back to it after you’ve heard our interview and got a chance to talk though kind of more and see what kind of information were gathering.
Interviewee: Okay, that sounds great.