Interviewer2: That’s part of what we've been wondering. If it is a doctor thing, is it a-- you know, perhaps the background in OCD? Or, if you are background in social work, or, I don’t know ,but it will be very interesting to look. I think, at at the end to see why that is.
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewee: So, sorry to interrupt [NAME].
Interviewer1: No, um yeah, um, so, the next criteria we wanted to bring up and, kind of, discuss with you is, uh, the-- this is, kind of, something we had talked about. The discarding of possessions-- they have and accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, thereby compromising their intended use, um, so--
Interviewer2: You know--
Interviewer1: Yeah. Go ahead [NAME].
Interviewer2: No, uh, we were going to ask you exactly what you had answered us already.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer2: Determination as to how much stuff is, is too much, depending on things like house size. Um, you know a lot of factors with that, but we also wanted to ask-- since we kind of already talked about it-- I'm just going to loop by that question if it's okay, um, but, we also wanted to ask about the idea of, um, substantially compromised use, um, and how you view, as a clinician, what the patients intent for the space might be? Um, I don’t know if that make sense as a question. You know, like, uh, the example that we give is, if a person doesn’t cook, what is the the intended use of their kitchen, and what’s a normal intended use?
Interviewee: Mhm, right. Yeah, yeah no. Like, uh, the little lady who’s awesome. She ninety-two. She’s done all of our studies. She still wicked smart. She love to entertain. She's got this group of lady friends that she likes to have over and they play bridge. She gets all of her meals delivered. She does not need her kitchen because of her-- you know, physically she’s, she’s rather compromised, just because of her age. So she'd rather-- and she doesn’t really sleep in a bed anymore, she sleep in a one of those lazy boy recliners because it helps her get up. Um, so, you know, her bedroom is just a storage facility. That’s what it is her kitchen is just another closet. She doesn't need it for anything, uh, she has access to the sink, and she has access the fridge, which is really-- she has access to her microwave, and that what really all she needs. Um, so, do we give her that criterion or not? I do, because, like, there’s a lot of layers to the onion. Um, she can’t find some document that are fairly important to her. If a fire were to break out in one of those back room she’d be toast. If there was some other problem that would happen in the, like, cave that is the rest of the house, you’d never know, and it could be pretty serious. Um, she had, like, a rat get in, right? And like, for that poor exterminator guy trying to find, like, where that rat is living like is a serious issue. So yeah. It's really subjective I think.
Interviewer2: Okay.
Interviewer1: And there are other things that, kind of, have to come into that judgment.
Interviewee: Yeah.