Interviewee: Well, so who do I think, about who is in our trial and who is in our research protocols. It is older females who are sterility educated but economically lower SEF.
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Interviewee: They tend to be like higher levels of loneliness like maybe they have um, a few core group friends, but there are interpersonal relationships that you maybe would typically expect that they no longer have, so perhaps estranged from family and what not. Um, they tend to be white do I think, that those are only--
Interviewee: Are they more located in the country?
Interviewee: What was that?
Interviewer2: Are they more located in cities, or uh suburbs, or the country?
Interviewee: No, I think, they are everywhere, and I mean that defiantly comes from my I mean, we would like in CITY hoarding patients would come out of the woodwork. Like you would advertise for like a washing study, and you would have all these hoarding patients. Um, a I’ve had a harder time recruiting hoarding down here in CITY than I have anywhere else, and I think, part of that has to do with that our city is over sixty-five percent Latino.
Interviewer2: Hm.
Interviewee: And do I think that we don’t have hoarding in those populations?
I don’t think so. I don’t think that that’s the answer. I think it has to do with perception issue you know, a lot of these like first generation or even second generation. Lets say let's take the Cuban immigrants for example they have fought tooth and nail for what they have, and now I'm going to come in a tell them that it’s a problem that they can’t move easily through their home. Of course they are going to be resistant to that. They are not going to self identify with that, so I think there a big part of that. Um, I, I, think, that we don’t understand enough about what hoarding looks like in other ethnicities, and then certainly also from what we know of um, the epidemiology studies is that there is no gender difference, and if I focus on my young adults there is no gender difference so somewhere in there--
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] seek treatment. Yeah.
Interviewee: All the dudes are getting lost.
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Interviewee: But it's not just seeking treatment. Like that’s why I keep emphasizing like not just our treatment study but also our research protocol in both of those places we see primarily females older females.
Interviewer2: So do you think, that’s a that’s a question with insight or identifying as a person with a problem with clutter or hoarding? Do you think, it’s a higher level of stigma?
Interviewee: All of the above probably right, and then I think, there’s probably another factor which is that I mean don’t know maybe more of these dudes are like living with partners who are cleaning up after them and basically keeping the clutter at bay?
I don’t know.
Interviewer2: Interesting. Um, so I just want to bring this up because uh I, I, don’t want us to get crunched for time I know we can talk up until and we both want to be respectful of your time, but I think, that probably we’re not going to be able to make it through all of our questions, and I'm wondering if it's possible to uh just get as far as we get and the schedule another time with you to, to, continue or follow up?
Interviewee: Sure, we can do that.