Interviewer1: Yeah, so um, just to go ahead and get started. We want we have a little informed consent that we just like to uh read to you before we get started with the actual interview. So you’re volunteering to participate in a research project conducted by NAME at UNIVERSITY. Um, you’re going to be one of about thirty or so people participating in the research your participation is voluntary um, and there are no direct benefit to you in participating. The biggest risk in participating is a violation of confidentiality you may withdraw or discontinue participation at any time without penalty, and if you declined to participate in the study no one will be told. Um, if you feel uncomfortable during the interview session you have the right to decline to answer any question at all or end the interview. Uh, the interview will last about sixty minutes and notes will be taken and an audio recording and dialog a subsequent transcription of the dialog will be made. If you don’t want to be recorded you will not be able to participate in the study. Um, all information that could identify you in the transcription will be removed and the audio recording will be destroyed. After transcription occurs uh, the researchers will not identify you by name in any reports, use any information obtained from this interview, and your confidentiality as a participant will remain secure. Um, these precautions will prevent your comments from having any negative reproductions on you.
Do you have any questions about that at this time?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer2: And then the second part of the interview is very free form and will just be a conversation. I probably should have explained that to you before we got started, but um, yeah so we’ll do one more this and then we'll move on and get to talk in a little more detail about all of this. I'm really excited to hear what you're about to say. I don’t know, uh just because you’ve already kind of jumped into the issues that we really want to hit on.
Interviewee: Yeah, like I said I'm really not, not, doing your lists very well i'll be better with this next one [LAUGHING].
Interviewer2: That’s okay, that’s okay.
Interviewer1: Um, before we go to the last one is there anything else you wanted to add to, to, ways that a person could identify someone. You know, you mentioned the clutter, the strong attachment to objects, and extreme disorganization, and then um a sense of optimism or potential that may or may not be present.
Interviewee: Once again that one I wouldn’t. I would not put on a diagnostic list. It's just something that I think about with these patients a lot. So the other thing is also like a squishy thing, and it has to do with the way they talk so there’s that INAUDIBLE that not quite as severe. Its not at all as severe as you would see with someone with psychosis, but you know, they fact that everything takes longer with these patients including having them complete a structured interview um is interesting it’s not diagnostic, but it's something that is very salient to me about these patients.
Interviewer1: Mhm, yeah.