Interviewer: Okay, um, well, that the bulk of our interview right there. Um, we just wanted to, kind of, close out with a very broad kind of general question, um, what you think that the biggest things that we still don’t know about hoarding disorder are. Or, uh, if you could answer one question about hoarding disorder, which one would you pick, where you think the most important research could be?
Interviewee: Oh my god! Um, I’ll be here forever if I answer that, but I really don’t know. I think it's so fascinating. It's like, you know, I started studying it almost by accident back in, like, you know, early 2000’s, and here I am, still looking at it. Um, I think that the most important that thing we can do in navigating hoarding research, in moving forward, is getting out of the mindset of this being an OC spectrum disorder. Um, I think that it-- hoarding-- has grown up so much, um, from with in the shadow of, of OCD. That is has shaped a lot of how we conceptualize this condition and how we conceptualize the symptoms, and the-- INAUDIBLE, and the validity everything an the more that we are learning about hoarding, the more I think that we need to stop doing that. It is almost like this perfect storm disorder, where you get, you know, high levels of depression, high levels of anxiety. You have these personality features. You have executive function deficits. You have, like, everything. Um, and, it just-- I think that part of the reason why it's so challenging. Um yeah, but, so, I-- I-- don’t make me pick one answer.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewer: Okay, that’s that’s fair. Um, and we talked about a lot of different issues too, over the course of this interview. Um, I really appreciate your time, and-- and um, this was just really a great interview, and um, I think that a lot of the things that you have-- it was great, and um, validity, and wonderful to have you, kind of, predict the questions that we were going to ask, because I think that, uh, we’re interested in, uh, the same kind of questions in terms of insight and in terms of how the diagnostic criteria are applied. Um, I don’t know if you want to talk now about next steps for us, um or if--
Interviewee: I mean, I think--
Interviewer: Want to think about it?
Interviewee: I think that, um-- so, so where I'm at right is that, if there’s a role for me as a your collaborator, or, you know, more lose consultant, um, I'm-- I, I certainly think that this is really important, and have been wanting to do something along these lines for for a while. So I'm game, but I but also-- so you guys are also at a point of study where, maybe you don’t really need any more cooks in the kitchen. That’s perfectly okay, and we could re-circle, you know, once you know, maybe, um, that fact-- that maybe you could use some these interviews to really develop a larger survey, um, to, you know, kind of, think about interviewing different types of folks. Not just experts, but the people who are actually-- because there are such few experts. So who are the people who are interacting with these patients on a daily basis? Um, we can always revisit this at that time.