Interviewee: Which is horrible [LAUGHING]. Um, so I do always have this question of were are these patients ending up?
Um, who’s actually asking about these symptoms?
If you don’t ask it the chances are the patients aren’t going to tell you. Um, so once we know that they are hoarding patients obviously that provides a whole different context for how we may be interpreting what other ailments they have um, let alone having them attending treatment for, for, the hoarding specifically. Um, so yeah so that’s what I've been wanting to think about you know, being able to survey treatment providers um of different disciplines right. I think, that’s what going the really important piece um, because certainly because the vast majority of your garden variety hoarding patients aren’t going to find their way to, to, the these very specialized programs. Um, so yeah, so that’s where I'm at.
Interviewer2: Mhm yeah, so that a really interesting kind of idea. So NAME and I had started theses interviews with this really core group of experts, and as he kind of put it there not like a huge intellectual community right now of people who are really plugged in to you know, what it means to have hoarding disorder. So we started with those people, and then we’ve been talking recently about whether or not we want to get people who are more on the periphery. Um, last time we had talked about this we had um mentioned maybe just doing interviews with clinicians who had just seen a hoarders or two who were not um, you know, by any means specializing in this, and to see how there understanding is different, how they go through the process of diagnosing someone with hoarding disorder, and compare that with the people who were really at the center of what’s happening, and we’ve also talked even about doing interviews with people who encounter people with this disorder through like housing services or um, you know, task force task forces um surrounding how this just to see again. Um, and you’ll see in our interview we haven’t so far asked about popular perceptions of hoarding disorder mostly because we’ve been interviewing people who are experts in it, but it is something we are interested in kind of understanding what is out there and what is the you know, the popular understating influencing how people are coming in for treatment and how their understanding what’s happening in their own behavior. Um, yeah, sorry. I don’t know if you want to add to that NAME?
Interviewer1: Yeah, no. I just, I agree, I think that is something definitely thought about in kind of envisioning the scope of our project, and I think probably similar you, you, NAME of the main limiting factor for us would be time and, and, man power to conduct the interviews and all of that.
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Interviewee: Yeah, that that really interesting. So the way I mean I think, that the uh like I I'm not a qualitative researcher so um, so that the techniques and methods for that are pretty fuzzy for me, but I have a really under deep appreciation for them um, in part because I don’t know if you’ve already spoke with NAME?
Interviewer2: No.
Interviewer1: No we have not.