Interviewee: Um, but that’s what we do with hoarding. So, I think that it is a huge problem in a situation, like a person who lives in a studio with their partner, and they have that living space cluttered up. Do they have more severe hoarding or less severe that the person who is rich, and has fifteen storage units and two homes that they have filled up, but their current home is spick and span, and beautiful?
Interviewer2: Mhm.
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer2: Literally, our next question was going to be for you to talk exactly about that issue so you're--
Interviewee: Oh --
Interviewer2: Like, we’re thinking along the same lines. Yeah, so how do you-- how do you do that? How do you decide how do you operate with that criteria, and, this is-- literally how do you do it in your practice?
Interviewee: Yeah, so is this like for the treatment, or like our groups that we run? Um, I'm super flexible with the clutter criterion because I just think that if somebody’s telling me that they are distressed and impaired because of their attachment to objects, regardless to whether that results in clutter, that is at the level the is required based on the DSM. I will let them in for our research study. It’s a lot more challenging, um, so, you know, because, people want to know if-- oh, you define hoarding disorder-- like, it is in the DSM, then you have to make sure that they meet that way. So basically, what I've been doing is, doing, like, a shadow, um, definition, which is to really hone in on the difficulties discarding as the, kind of, primary diagnostic criterion, because it its, and issue-- our field is going to have to grapple with in, um, and I think, especially as we start to look at hoarding across the globe, I think these where it's going to be particularly relevant. Um, if you put me living in a camper trailer, it's automatically going to feel more cluttered, even though I'm not a cluttered person, right? You know then, if you put me in a special, you know, five bedroom, like, mansion space, and-- how much access we have to space is something we have to think about. I don’t think there’s any clear cut answers right now, and then the other diagnostic criteria I have a huge issue with, um, is the acquiring. Um, so, identifying acquiring as, uh, the specified, and-- I just-- I'm just, like, ‘hang on a moment’ okay, so we have a patient who has full blown hoarding, but the don’t have acquiring, so they say no to acquiring. Nine time out of ten, those patients are either actively avoiding any sort of situation where they may be tempted to acquire, or they’ve run out of money, okay, like, they literally can’t, like, they are barely feeding themselves and their family, um, or there’s some other, like, kind of, extenuating circumstance, like, I've never purchased things, and then you find out all their-- like, of our magazines disappear from that waiting groom every time that patient stops by, and so, I think that its is it doesn’t allow for a nuanced description of, uh, the acquiring issue in hoarding, and just because you are avoiding something, does not mean you do not have a problem with acquiring. You have a really big problem with acquiring, but we live in a very materialistic world, so your constantly exposed to stuff, so those are my two bones that I have to pick with--
Interviewer2: With the criteria, yeah. What about this issue of telling hoarding from other mental health disorders? So, you know, there are several types hoarding, some of them mentioned are obsessive compulsive disorder, also depression sometimes that patients get very upset--