Interviewer: So, it seems like it's crux of thing to which they are applying that distorted value judgment to, and there’s also an aspect that you mentioned, of, that there is a cultural or societal norm for what things have value, and I'm curious to whether that monetary value, or emotional values, or atheistic values-- which of these are we talking about?
Interviewee: Um, I think that-- I think it-- I think it depends. I don’t think we have really good answered for that yet. Um, if you go with that example of the woman I just talked about, where she had the five storage units, so she-- the part that I didn’t mention was, she lived in a house boat, actually. Okay? So she lives in a very small space, basically the size of a camper, um, and the stuff that’s in the storage facilities is is all of her parents old belonging, um, and she’s, you know-- also, part of the context here is she’s, like, I think sixty-six or something. Like, that, um, and her parents died, like, about twenty years ago, and, and so, in those twenty years she has kept paying for those five storage units. She has gotten divorced. She has loss a home. She has been displaced because of hurricanes. Like, all these things have happened to her. She has hung on to those storage units. Um, she also really-- part of the reason she’s on the boat is, she’s financially super, super strapped. She’s on medicaid, um, and a lot of people, including her adult children, have suggested she should go through those storage units, because there may be something of value in there that she could actually sell to try to get her off of the boat and into, um, a, you know, a kind of, normal apartment or home, um, and so that would be an example of where she probably has some valuable stuff, right? So I think another element that you have to factor in is, how much do you hang on to stuff, even if it is of value, despite reasons that would indicate that you should see or discard or do something with them? Does that make sense?
Interviewer: Yeah, totally. That’s a lot that-- a lot for that criteria that a lot of work INAUDIBLE diagnostic work behind that criteria, you know, it leaves a lot--
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: On the shoulders of the clinician.
Interviewee: Absolutely. Which is another thing that brings me back to why I am so fascinated to think about your average physician, right? Who, who maybe only ever seen advertisements for buried alive. What are they going to do with these criteria? Like, how are they determining this? They’re not right? An anyway, I digress.
Interviewer: And it is very interesting-- again, kind of, to move in the interview to talking about the interview process, just from my perspective, just from listening to these interviews, the very different ideas that people have about there diagnostic criteria-- I mean, they go from thinking there’s a lot of nuance, to very little nuance. Just in the few interviews we’ve done so far-- we’ve done about eight so far, and we have really seen a range. I don’t know if you agree with that NAME, but it is very surprising to me, the different ways clinicians talk about this criteria.
Interviewee: I wonder if a lot of that is going to come down to MDs.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: Versus--