Interviewee: Definitely talk to is [NAME], and I'm goanna-- if you haven’t already reached out to [NAME]-- I'm going to send you his email. Um, [NAME] runs the housing up in [CITY], and [NAME] has, I think, really different insight, because he’s reaching patients through the department of housing before they self identify, um, and so I think that his perspective about, you know, how does insight and motivation for treatment-- how does that all play out-- is, is really different from those of us who are, kind of, in a little bit more, um, I don’t know, uh, elitist type of treatment programs, right? Where, by the time somebody has called within the greater [CITY] community, they have found their way to the study of anxiety stress and OCD at the [UNIVERSITY]. I mean, they absolutely already have some insight. Um, now, not everybody is ready for what it takes to do this treatment, which is probably why I kind of have this unspoken rule, that everybody has to do the facilitated self help group first, and then they, kind of, work up to the CBT group, and then they work up to the individual therapy. Um, sometimes we break that rule, but rarely, and I think part of it is, we have them do the self help group first to try to figure out, ‘Are you really ready for this?’. Um, do you have to have enough, kind of, motivation to, kind of, push through uh those tough times? 
Interviewer2: Mhm, mhm. And um, I-- we’ll reach our-- reach out to you at the end of the interview for contact information. That something we intended to do. You listed, and get names from you, and I think you're right, he would have a really different perspective on how patients-- 
Interviewee: Yeah. 
Interviewer2: Come to this, because you see, some other [INAUDIBLE]--
Interviewee: And, you know what?
Interviewer2: Mhm. 
Interviewee: [NAME] treatment outcomes look better than ours. 
Interviewer2: Interesting. 
Interviewee: Yeah. 
Interviewer2: Yeah, and like-- 
Interviewee: And, you got that carrot-- you’ve got the carrot. Of you're going to lose your voucher if you don’t do this. 
Interviewer2: Mhm. 
Interviewer1: Mhm.
Interviewee: Yeah. 
Interviewer2: Okay, um so, [NAME], want to move on to the next section?
Interviewer1: Yeah. I think that the last question I had for you, from the insight topic, is, uh, when you're describing a patient with having low insight, um, what does that mean for you how are you defining insight?
Interviewee: Well, I think it's basically what I, you know, what I kind of touched on before. Is that, for low insight, it would mean, either there is an aspect that they cannot recognize, right? They’re, like, looking at the dead birds that they have collected, and they’re like, ‘They are happy and healthy.’, like, they do not recognize that they have a problem. Um, that’s obviously an extreme example. But, but then it think that the other way I would define insight is, this variable insight, which would be more of that defensiveness, the overvalued ideation, and then the indifference piece, like, ‘What’s it to you that my house it cluttered?’. Um, I think clinicians constantly get in to trouble when we want to get them, like, to a one on the clutter image rating, and they’re totally fine being at a four, right? Like ‘What’s the big deal?’. Um, so yeah.
