P2: Yeah, I think that’s a really interesting too. Um so, if you just-- to, kind of, return to the questions we skipped, sorry about that [NAME]. Kind jumping all over the place. Um so, if you were to think about your conversations with patients, um, how would you-- how do you try to help a patient gain insight? Or how do you try to help patients recognize things about this concept of insight that might be able to recognize in treatment. What do you say to, um, to get them there?
Interviewee: Well, one of the things that I think about a lot, to capitalize on where they’re at, so there was something-- Well, let me backup. I take a very MI approach to this, so that’s probably the simplest way to answer that. So you-- you kind of roll with the resistance, but you try to them really flesh out, um, their potential reasons for change, the potential barriers to change, and, and the ultimate hope would be, you are going to kind of increase this readiness for change-- kind of, like, mental preparedness for change? Um, but, I-- I really keep that in mind throughout treatment with hoarding patients, because there are going to be weeks where, whatever it is that you are sorting is going to be sorting, is going to, um, it-- it's just going to be tougher. And so, maybe you're just going to have more of a challenge that week than than others. So just, kind of, rolling with that resistance and helping the patient can navigate that. Um, an making it okay that you understand, um, you know-- similar to someone one with subs abuse-- there’s a reason why they are using-- there’s a reason why our patients are saving their stuff and those reasons aren’t bad.
P2: Mhm. 
Interviewee: The behavior-- the result is not helpful, but the reason behind, right? It-- we shouldn’t necessarily judge. 
P2: Ham, interesting. And just to, kind of, carry that a step further, um, one thing that we heard from some other clinician is that, um, by the time the patients come to them they already-- They, kind of, by definition, already have some insight as to what’s going on. So, if you can just think through, in your experience, what that process before patients, you know, are necessarily self identifying as hoarders, or are coming in for studies or treatment, what that process of gaining insight on their own has looked like for your patients? 
Interviewee: Yeah, you know the person who [INAUDIBLE] 
P2: [INAUDIBLE]