P1: And you say exceptions because, usually these individuals are living by themselves?
Interviewee: Yeah, or they’re just living with their-- like, you know, partner. Their husband or their wife. Um, but, in cases where-- especially down here in CITY (1:45:08), we have a couple of patients I'm thinking about, where their multigenerational living in under the same roof, um, and so the hoarding is impacting more than just their partner, and so those were the few exceptions that I had in mind, where the patients is the one who seeks treatment. Where we had then had, like, a family meeting. 
P2: Mhm. Just because the other individuals will be directly impacted, and will be kind of helping them to live without their stuff or to discard--
Interviewee: Yeah.
P2: Um, you mentioned the case of, you know, people who are come into hoarding treatment because of social service workers, or because of they are going to be evicted. Um, so I guess I'm wondering, in comparison with, with the people who are brought in by their families, um, you know, you had mentioned earlier that they-- their outcomes are better because they are going to lose their vouchers. So do you think there is a different process for patients who, kind of, come in to contact with, or have to, to make these decisions because of forced by an institution or state entity? 
Interviewee: Mhm yeah. I think-- I think when you guys talk to NAME (1:46:29) I think that will be really interesting for you. 
P2: Mhm. You think that a pretty different process for them?
Interviewee: Yes because-- 
P2: Because they don’t have any control at that point? 
Interviewee: I mean, if you think about our treatment-- our treatment is not rocket science, and its also not, like, in some ways, it’s not mount Everest. It's like, okay, you're going to discard your stuff. You're going to practice discarding your stuff. Were going to create a hierarchy that you use, and we’re going to work our way all the way up, and them maybe we will throw in some, you know, cognitive remediation, and maybe we’ll throw in some, like, cognitive therapy to target those beliefs. But its not that it's like that challenging. You ask anyone who works with hoarding patients what its challenging, I would be shocked if not on one of their top ten list is getting them to do their homework, and telling them to do it. Um, so, I think that that’s the part where the external forces is just so instrumental, because it just helps in, um, you know, but-- I say that but there’s some days, like, they still-- NAME (1:47:45)’s group has tried a token economy an that, you know, works just about as well as everything else we do, ie not that impressively. Um, and so I do think there’s something about it being very, kind of, hard, concrete, external reinforce-er. I don’t know. I’ll be curious about what you guys say after you talk to NAME (1:48:11). 
P2: Yeah, I think that that will be an interesting interview for us, um, and we’ll get in contact with him, I think. I'm not sure if I can find him. I just looked him up and I didn’t email address, so.
Interviewee: I’ll, I’ll send it to you. 
P2: INAUDIBLE (1:48:24) later. 
Interviewee: Yeah. I’ll send it to you.
