Interviewee: Great question. So and I think, that there um, we just finished a study looking at the dimension of hoarding uh, or rather saving behaviors um, so that’s something that I'm very interested in because I'm particularly fascinated by who are these people when they are young?
So before they are sixty-five and coming in to out treatment programs or our study protocols who are these people when they are like twenty?
[LAUGHING] where are they?
What do they look like?
And I think, a really important piece to understanding that is knowing what is normative saving and what is is not normative saving, and the cool notion about collecting I think, its really fascinating and so in six months I’ll have more concrete answers for you guys about what I think really distinguishes uh abnormal from normal behaviors um, and I'm not sure if our hypothesis are going to to pan out. I mean the most obvious thing is the level of like the threshold at which you save something and the threshold at which you let something go. That is much higher for hoarding patients then it is for those of us who don’t have hoarding. Um, I also think that the rigidity with regard to saving rules is also one of the factors that differentiate and then seeing value in things. I think, it’s the other piece that is going to really differentiate normal from abnormal.
Interviewer2: You you're doing a study that is related to the kind of early lives of hoarders or are you more looking at this boundary between normal and abnormal saving behaviors? What when you say that I'm not sure.
Interviewee: Both, both.
Interviewer2: INAUDIBLE Okay, so what specifically are you doing if you don’t mind.
Interviewee: Yeah, so we well first of all I'm really interested in these young adults, and college students are these really fascinating group because it’s the first time they are living alone but they are still living in this fairly controlled environments um, so better understanding which of those students are doing to go on to become our eventual hoarding patients is, is, something that I'm really curious about, and, and, importantly our core diagnosis criteria of clutter is absolutely worthless with that group of young adults cause they A haven’t had time to collect enough stuff and B they’re living in controlled environment. They are living in like a two by two foot dorm room with a roommate [LAUGHING] um, and, so none of these students would meet for clutter like none of them. So they wouldn’t get the diagnoses of hoarding, so we absolutely see difficulties discarding um, and a lot of the similar features that we see with like, like, clinical hoarding patients like the older patients we also see with these younger kids. Um, so that’s part of it. Another study that we did, but isn’t really related to that is that we recruited eighteen gender match healthy control, and then collectors people who do not meet the diagnosis for hoarding but they have a collection and they identity has a collector, and then hoarding disorder patients, so we basically artificially created a dimension um, by oversampling those three groups.