Interviewer: Ok. So we’ve touched on this a little bit, the difficulty discarding due to a perceived need to save items and distress associated with discarding them.
How do you go about determining how much distress is normal or abnormal?
Interviewee: Well I think that distress in discarding in general is abnormal, right, in that we may feel a little twinge of sorrow when we get rid of something that has sentimental value, but we’ve decided it’s time to go.
But that’s not really distress, that’s sorrow, right?
Distress is a feeling of real discomfort because… well in this case because you might need it, because you’re worried that if you let it go you’ll miss that information or you’ll miss that object.
Its… I would actually characterize it differently.
You know, when I’m getting rid of my kids’ T-shirts from when they were two I feel a little bit of sorrow about that and I feel sentimental, but I don’t feel distress.
I don’t feel like I’m going to need those again; I can’t get rid of them because I’ll never remember my child again.
Its really more of a, kind of a sentimental sorrow.
And so, I think the intention of that term in the DSM-5 is really about, its causing problems.
And in this case its problems related to a physical sensation or an emotional sensation, anxiety, etcetera.
Interviewer: Ok.
And is it sometimes difficult to assess the level of distress that hoarders have?
Interviewee: Yeah, there’s no real objective way to assess an internal feeling, right?
Interviewer: Yeah.
What about if a patient is denying having a problem?
Interviewee: So that’s true for all disorders that have variable insight.
I think you have to assess some external measures of distress and impairment.
If they won’t let someone into their home, if they feel socially isolated, if they can’t bathe or can’t do very basic activities of daily living, then even if they deny impairment we would intuit impairment.
But for example, the man who was an information collector with all of the technology, he came to our study because he recognized that there was a problem.
And so his level of distress did not meet active criteria, and he was one I actually sent a case around to multiple experts to kind of help determine, and they all agreed he was kind of on the borderline.
But he had some inkling that there was something there.
And so we can create Likert scales to determine the amount of distress, but there is really no… it’s an internal feeling.
It’s kind of along the lines of “how much pain are you having,” right?
Impairment is a little easier to quantify because you can assess activities of daily living and functionality.