Rebecca: Mm-hm. Are they actually true?
Interviewee: So “true” is not going to work for hoarding either because it’s not a “true,” right? That’s for delusions. This is where I’d have to dock the BABS. I would change that to saying, “underlying medical or biological cause” not “psychiatric, psychological, or neurological.” I think you’ll get some people say yes, they think it’s an underlying, there’s an underlying biological cause, and I think some will say, “No, I think it’s because of how I grew up.” I think that varies along with just about everything with people, right? Which is that people with more medical or biological or scientific sophistication will have some understanding that this might be a medical or biological problem. And others will not have any awareness of that. And some of that has to do with the fact that this disorder is still not really well known or understood by the lay community or by the medical community as being a biological psychiatric problem. So I think most people will say, “No, it’s not a psychiatric problem.” And I think that is actually something we should adjust in the BABS to really fit our population. I think we’re going to have to look at it, because the BABS was really written for psychosis. 
Rebecca: [inaudible 21:49] Alright. So the literature surrounding hoarding disorder describes hoarders as often having low insight. How do you define insight?
Interviewee: Insight is the awareness of what your symptoms are and how they impact you and the world around you. Insight doesn’t have anything to do with the causes of the symptoms.
Rebecca: Ok. I’m going to read another question from the BABS, so how do you think your patients with hoarding disorder would answer this question? “How convinced are you of these ideas or beliefs about the value of things and the impact it has on your life?”
Interviewee: Ok that’s going to have to be reworded also. “How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding them?” A version of that. I think that has to do with varying levels of insight. Some people will say, “I know that I can get rid of it, but I just can’t bring myself to do it.” Some people will say, “I know I need this and sometimes I’m convinced of it, and sometimes I know that I can get rid of it,” and some people will say, “I have to keep everything.” I think that particular thing is an insight question essentially, and it will vary by people. I think we’ll get more of the, “I know at least some of the time I can get rid of it safely,” than the, “I always need to keep it.” 
Rebecca: Ok. So you think that that low insight subgroup is – 
Interviewee: Not going to come in for treatment.
Rebecca: Would you say that it’s… that you think prevalence wise or population wise it would probably be a 50/50 split?
Interviewee: No, I think it’s a spectrum like this. I mean I think there’s some people with very good insight and high motivation, some people with very poor insight or almost delusional, and then most people are kind of in the middle.