Interviewer: Ok. So next I want to move to talking about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder have for their behavior.
I know we had you list some earlier on.
Are these explanations, in your opinion, post hoc reasons to justify pathological need?
Interviewee: I don’t know.
That’s what my lab is trying to figure out.
I don’t think there are false explanations.
I think that they may not be the… they may not get at the biology underlying the disorder, but I think that people do save for lots of reasons, sentimental in addition to other things.
And that different people with hoarding disorder have all kinds of different attachments to things.
And so I do think there’s an underlying biology that drives most of it, maybe not all of it, but I also think that that biology might express itself in different ways.
And that visual memory may be part of it, and for some people sentimental attachment may be part of it.
And so I think the answer is kind of in between yes and no for that one.
Just because there’s an underlying biology doesn’t mean that the reasons that people give aren’t valid.
Interviewer: Ok.
So in your experience, how do you think patients would respond to this question from the Brown Assessment of Beliefs?
“What do you think has caused you to have these beliefs?”
Interviewee: Behaviors, it would have to be for this, not beliefs.
Interviewer: Beliefs, behaviors, yeah.
Interviewee: Or difficulties.
How do I think patients would respond?
I think there would be a whole variety of answers.
Many of them would say… I mean a lot of people would attribute it to childhood trauma or some traumatic event.
People will say that it is, you know, wanting to remember a loved one.
Some will say that they… They will give reasons that have to do with why they keep things, not causation.
I think that if you asked somebody about what you think has caused it, I’m not sure that they would be able to answer it in that direct way.
I think they would say, you know, “I need to do this because I have memory problems,” or “I want to remember my mom,” or “I need to be sure I won’t need something in that newspaper,” or “I need to read everything before I discard it.”
But I don’t think that they’ll say something along the lines of, “No I was born this way,” or, you know, “it’s genetic,” or anything like that.
I think they’ll give kind of individual reasons.
Interviewer: How do you think they’d respond to kind of the second half of the question?
“Do these beliefs or behaviors have a psychiatric or psychological, neurological cause, or are they true?”
Interviewee: True?
That’s part of the BABS?