Rebecca: Ok. And do you… what’s the relationship between patients’ family, friends, loved ones living with them and their degree of insight?
Interviewee: I don’t know that there is a direct relationship. I think if you have somebody living with you, you have an external person who can provide more insight, but also, or you know kind of help with that, but they can also, if you don’t have high insight, can create defensiveness. We also have people who are kind of passive participants. So, I’m not sure if family members… I definitely have treated family members whose loved ones have no insight, and they’re coming for treatment themselves because they can’t impact their loved one. I’m not sure that I think the loved ones have a real direct impact on insight. Again, I’m not sure what causes insight, but I think it’s more biologically driven. 
Rebecca: Ok. How often or how frequently are employees of the state, you know, social workers, police officers, homeowner’s associations, involved in cases of hoarding disorder and people coming in and diagnosing?
Interviewee: So, the two different questions. The first one, it depends a little bit on the density. So, in rural areas I think it’s much less common. I think in urban areas it’s quite common, so in San Francisco and in Boston where there are big hoarding task forces, etcetera, the police, the fire department, landlords, tenant’s associations, are very aware of this issue. They have been trained how to diagnose it or at least assess it. In places here where it’s very rural I think people could go for many, many, many years without ever being recognized, so some of it depends a little on… [Name of County] has a hoarding taskforce actually, through the sheriff’s office. But I think it depends a little bit on the impact on society at large, and the more density there is, the higher the knowledge base because the higher the impact. Diagnosing it, I think most of the time people will recognize that there is a problem but will not be able to diagnose it because I don’t think there’s an awareness that it’s an illness. Even, you know, even among medical professionals. 
Rebecca: Ok. Well alright that is all the questions I have for you. 
Interviewee: They’re good questions.