Interviewer: Are there ways that you can help a patient try to gain insight?
Is that something that you try to do?
Interviewee: I think for those that are amenable to it a medical model can help.
Understanding that this is a biological disorder that can progress with age and that can be treated with behavior therapy and sometimes with medications.
That helps.
I think not everybody’s amenable to that.
Some people… So, you have to figure out what model of explanation is amenable to the patient.
Some people the medical model is very helpful.
For some people understanding that our goal as treating clinicians is not to empty their homes, but to make them safe, not to take away their sentimental attachments, will help them gain insight and ability to discard things.
So, it is a little bit about kind of assessing what their underlying ideas about their own symptoms are and working towards an inroad there.
Which is really kind of what the context of motivational interviewing is.
Find where they’re motivated to make a change.
Do you want your grandchildren to come?
How do we make that possible?
This isn’t for you, this is for your kids.
Some of those things can help.
But to be honest those folks don’t tend to stick around in treatment, they tend not to come in because this is not something that’s well recognized as an illness.
It’s still seen as a behavior that is intentional or volitional, and therefore there’s a fair amount of shame and defensiveness around that.
That isn’t insight per se because that’s cultural, right?
That’s how society conceptualizes this disorder right now.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: To me insight is, despite kind of a recognized, societally recognized understanding of something, your view of it is different and limited, and I don’t think we’re there for hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: So, what do you think causes a patient to fail to gain insight?
Interviewee: I think it’s biology actually.
I really think that insight is neuronally driven.
I think we can modify it to some degree and work with it.
I think just like in schizophrenia it’s not volitional, and, as in schizophrenia, we don’t try to change patients’ minds.
We try to work with them without endorsing their delusional states, also without directly challenging them.
I don’t think that insight is a volitional thing that you can work on in therapy.
I think you can modify it and shift it to a degree, but I really think it’s biologically based and maybe progressive actually.
Lack of insight may be progressive.
It may be a marker of severity of illness, I’m not sure.
Interviewer: I know you mentioned the psychiatrist’s role in improving patients’ quality of life.
How much do you feel like insight or the lack thereof impinges on an individual’s quality of life?
Interviewee: I think it can impinge on it quite directly.
I think many of the people who die in hoarding houses lack insight.
I think people who animal hoard and live in really fettered conditions with starving animals lack insight.
So, I think insight is actually a prime motivator or prime cause of impaired quality of life.
I think people with better insight are more motivated for treatment and are motivated for change.
Whether they’re successful or not on their own is a different question, but they’re the ones who come in seeking treatment and are always trying to declutter.