Rebecca: Ok. In that literature, there’s been a breakdown of the concept of insight into many different constructs including defensiveness, anosognosia, or lack of ability to perceive your illness when something is wrong with your quality of life, overvalued ideation, indifference. In your experience are any of these more prevalent or more problematic in your work with these individuals?
Interviewee: Probably anosognosia and, to a lesser degree, not overvalued ideation but overvalued beliefs that these are going to be needed in the future, somebody is going to need these in the future. Indifference is not usually a problem. And what was the first one?
Rebecca: And defensiveness.
Interviewee: Defensiveness is a secondary phenomenon, I think, around, for people who have insight, a need to, well, defend their symptoms and behaviors, but I think it’s tied to insight. I don’t think it’s a measure of insight. It’s a proxy, I think, you can get at insight a little bit. You can imply that people have some level of insight if they’re defensive, but I don’t think it’s a direct measure of insight. You do see it, though.
Rebecca: So, you cannot have defensiveness without insight? 
Interviewee: Without a modicum of insight at least. 
Rebecca: Ok. Can you describe some of the typical processes that occur in order to get patients to your office for treatment or study participation. Do you feel like it’s normally self-motivated or by others?
Interviewee: In my experience it’s been both, most of the people who come and stick in treatment it’s self-motivated. Sometimes the family member is pushing them to come, but again, they don’t tend to stick unless there is some individual motivation. And then I have had court ordered cases as well.
Rebecca: Ok. How long has the hoarding behavior been going on before you typically see patients?
Interviewee: At the very least a decade and usually much longer. I’ve seen a few in the early stages, but most of the people who come into treatment have had it for a very long time.
Rebecca: Ok. How aware, would you say, are typical patients that they have hoarding disorder when you first see them?
Interviewee: Well, because they’re in my clinic or in my research study, pretty aware. 
Rebecca: Pretty aware.
Interviewee: Yeah. They’re coming, for the most part, on their own accord. They may not know the term, but they know the problem.
Rebecca: So, next I’m going to ask you, how do you explain hoarding disorder to a patient with low insight?
Interviewee: I think that has changed over the years as my understanding of it has changed, but I explain that things are valuable to them, that even though they’re valuable there is some risk in keeping as many things as they have. There’s safety issues, there’s health issues. That we are not asking to get rid of all of their things, but just to make their home safe and livable. It’s kind of a harm reduction model. I don’t try to get into what’s causing it. I don’t try to get into even explaining what it is as a psychiatric illness, because if they have low insight that tends to raise defensiveness and decrease cooperation. My goal is quality of life, so if they have very low insight the issue is improving their living circumstances and not getting rid of their stuff.
Rebecca: Ok. 
Interviewee: And that’s changed over the years as I’ve kind of worked with folks more and more.