Interview 009
Rebecca: Ok. Now I want to talk a little bit about the DSM-5 criteria for hoarding disorder. Are there things about the DSM-5 criteria that you feel are sometimes challenging or particular elements that are difficult to apply where the different clinicians might apply differently?
Interviewee: I think the DSM-5 criteria actually is quite well written, and the fact that they put insight and acquisition as specifiers rather than requirements is important. And that there does not necessarily need to be unusable living spaces if there’s an external agency person helping to keep the living area clean. I think that impairment criteria is very difficult to assess or can be difficult to assess. How do you… If there isn’t a huge amount of clutter how do you assess somebody who is in the early stages of hoarding disorder, for example. So for me, the problem is not people who have somewhat moderate to severe hoarding, its people who are in the early stages where we might want to intervene early and yet it’s not yet clear whether they meet the criteria. I think those folks are likely to get missed or underdiagnosed. The ones who are starting to have difficulty discarding and are starting to save but have not yet accumulated to the point where there is impairment. That’s where I would like to intervene, but they may not meet criteria.
Rebecca: And that’s because the criteria almost necessitates a certain amount of time span, you think, to build up that degree of clutter, or?
Interviewee: I don’t know if its time spent or absence of external factors controlling it, or if it’s just the natural progression of the disorder, but… and obviously all the DSM criteria, all the DSM diagnoses requires a level of impairment or distress, but I think that the focus on clutter as one of the primary mechanisms of impairment is good at the severe end, but may not be good in the early stages. It may be distress that’s more relevant there. And I think that may be, well I think that people will say “Well your beds are not full of clutter therefore you can’t have hoarding disorder,” and I think that’s where we might get into trouble. For such a new disorder though, I mean I think this will become more of a problem as time goes on, right. That right now what we want is for people to recognize the disorder as such and diagnose it in those cases that are clear. And some of the more subtle ones, they’re important but we have a long ways to go before…
Rebecca: Ok. So now I want to ask you some questions about the way you think about specific phrases or portions of the DSM-5 criteria. So I’m going to read you a phrase and I’d like to know more about your thought process as you apply that to individual patients. So with “persistent difficulty discarding or parting regardless of their actual value,” how are you determining value?