Interviewer: So one of the ideas behind talking about clutter is that the space is filled and that’s a problem, but are their people for whom they don’t need to have as much free space in their home in order to live with a sense of ease or comfort?
Interviewee: Oh sure.
And I think that the key is not volume of space, but the space is not usable.
Right?
So things piled on top of the stove is different than knickknacks on the counter.
Right?
So usable space is determined by the individual, but there are also certain things for which, and this, again, gets to kind of cultural norms, whatever the environment that you live in, and etcetera.
So somebody whose bed is filled with pillows that go off the bed at night is different than somebody whose bed is filled with papers, and they sleep in a corner of the bed.
So again, it’s what is on the counter, let’s say, and is it there deliberately or is it there for lack of space?
And those are fundamental differences.
It’s not what’s… it’s not how much is on the counter, but why is it there and can you use the counter.
Some people don’t cook and so then their counters can be filled with things.
There also is a very big difference between collectionism, which is deliberate, and hoarding, which is because of a difficulty.
I mean there is excessive acquisition in people with hoarding, but people who collect go out and look for specific things, and they get pleasure from that particular thing, and, you know, they organize and arrange, etcetera.
That’s a very different phenomenon.
Interviewer: Ok.
Kind of going back to something that you mentioned, you know, if someone doesn’t cook, for example, their stove might have things on it, and so with the phrase in the DSM “substantially compromising intended use.”
Is that kind of a cultural intended use or is that this individual’s intended use?
Interviewee: I think it’s kind of both, right?
Somebody who doesn’t cook but has papers on the stove still puts themselves at risk.
Somebody who doesn’t cook but has repurposed the stove into something else, that’s different, right?
So to some degree it’s the individuals, and so this gets to the insight as well, but… And this is tricky for all the psychiatric illnesses, which is, how much of it is driven by the individual and how much of it is driven by our current society?
Delusions and schizophrenia are a good example of that.
Although, for schizophrenia, even though there are cultural norms and things are more accepted in some cultures than in others, there’s still this kind of core symptomatology that’s seen and accepted across all cultures, and I think probably the same is true for hoarding disorder.
Which is, if the living area is unsafe or unsanitary or piled in a non-deliberate manner, then that would probably qualify.