Interviewer: So, you feel like, we psychiatry, medicine is not in a place where we can directly treat insight, lack of insight.
Interviewee: No, I think we can chip away at it, but I don’t think we can directly treat it.
And I don’t actually think we’ve been very successful in schizophrenia or anorexia either, which are two other disorders which have a significant insight component.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: We try with anorexia to kind of pound insight into folks, but I don’t think it’s successful.
I think people recover from anorexia and at some point, they gain insight, but I don’t think psychiatry really impacts them in that context other than treating their symptoms such that they can come to it.
Interviewer: Can you speculate as to what goes into that shift to insight?
Interviewee: For anorexia?
Interviewer: For anorexia, what it would look like in INDISTINGUISHABLE
Interviewee: I wish.
I have patients I wish I could get to that shift.
I don’t really have a good sense, unfortunately.
I think motivational interviewing can help kind of identifying places where symptoms or problems are causing distress that the patient themselves identifies.
I actually think, for a lot of patients, insight varies, it’s not static.
Insight can be greater or worse at certain times or times of life or whatever.
But I don’t think we can really treat insight per se, not in most people.
That’s not to say we shouldn’t try.
Interviewer: Ok.
And have you seen that variance in insight in individuals with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Mhm.
Interviewer: And it’s just over days, over time, what kind of period have you seen?
What have you seen?
Interviewee: I think there’s two kinds of trajectories, one is over time with treatment, somebody who engages in treatment, their insight can shift for the better.
I also think that people have moments of insight, often with an… so when somebody comes over and makes a comment about their house.
Where, you know, they’re habituated to the situation and something kind of brings it to their awareness from an external perspective.
That can cause flashes of insight.
I think defensiveness, which you talked about before, can kind of create lower insight as kind of a protection at some level.
So, if you push too hard you can have people retreat into kind of a decreased state of insight.
And so temporally you can see longitudinal changes, usually with treatment, but sometimes just with disease progression, and then you can see these kind of momentary shifts, which sometimes can also lead to temporal changes, right?
Interviewer: Yeah.
Interviewee: Kind of those breakthrough moments people talk about one way or the other.
Interviewer: Ok.
Kind of the last set of questions I wanted to ask you were: what role do a patient’s family and friends play in arriving at a diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well if you can get collateral information it’s always very useful because patients can over and under report their symptoms, typically under report but also over report.
An assessment of impairment and distress, an assessment of insight.
It’s hard to get that collateral often, but when you have it it’s useful.
Interviewer: What relatives do you find are most often involved in that process?
Interviewee: It’s not necessarily relatives, it’s somebody living with the person, so living partners usually.
Children sometimes, sometimes neighbors actually.