Interviewer2: Right, right.
So, kind of just to take it one step further for healthy individuals there might be a degree of variance in the amount of free space they like in their home.
So, some people really prefer to have clear spaces, like a clear desk, while others kind of like a little bit of clutter or don’t mind having things out and ready to use on their desk.
Do you think hoarding disorder could be kind of an extension of this variance or is there… is that maybe [INAUDIBLE] below threshold, or is it something entirely different?
Interviewee: I think that it’s a combination of the two.
I think that it’s going beyond kind of that range of the typical behaviors, but I also feel as though there’s, everyone starts feeling more overwhelmed or more paralyzed by the stuff than the other people may be.
So, someone who does not engage in hoarding behaviors but has a cluttered desk maybe just doesn’t prioritize the sorting and filing of items, whereas someone who is more overwhelmed by hoarding… Hold on sorry I have to start over… So, someone who’s not bothered by hoarding they just… You know, “I just don’t want to deal with the papers it’s not a big deal.
I can sit down and do it later.”
Whereas someone with hoarding, “The papers are there.
I don’t know how to deal with it.
I’m avoiding rather than choosing to not deal with it,” because it’s more associated with feeling overwhelmed, feeling distressed in some way.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Interviewee: Yeah, so my husband doesn’t care about his files, he just doesn’t want to deal with them, but if he needs to sit down and do it he has the ability to do it.
Interviewer2: Ok, ok.
The last criteria of the DSM 5 that we’d like to talk through with you is one that says, “This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to the distress associated with discarding them.”
So, again we were kind of wondering how you assess the degree of distress that somebody has with discarding an item, and whether this might be more difficult to assess in patients who don’t have a lot of insight about the disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that if the individuals don’t have the insight, or they’re also far enough removed from their stuff, they may think that they wouldn’t have any difficulty letting go of the items, but then when they’re actually in the moment of dealing with the items, that’s when the distress comes up.
But, they may not be able to anticipate just how upsetting it would be.
Interviewer2: So, you might ask a patient in your office, “Would you get rid of this item?” and they would say, “yes,” but then when actually confronted with the need to do it they would experience distress.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer2: But, they wouldn’t… they didn’t even know they would experience it.
Interviewee: Or they would significantly underestimate the level of distress that they would expect to have.
Interviewer2: That makes sense.
Ok, [NAME] do you want to take over with some questions?
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewer2: We appreciate your time, again we want to be respectful of it.
I appreciate you… your answers are great so we’re kind of taking our time, assuming you have time, but if you need to end at any point just let us know.
Interviewee: Ok, sure.
We are good, I’ve still got 88 miles to go.