Interviewee: Hello?
Interviewer1: Hello?
Interviewer2: Hello?
Interviewee: Hey its [NAME].
Let me try to figure it out… I had you on my Bluetooth.
It should be on Bluetooth now.
Interviewer1: Ok.
We can hear you.
Can you hear us?
Interviewee: I can hear you.
Interviewer1: Alright, how are you doing?
Interviewer2: Ok, [NAME].
Interviewee: Yes?
Interviewer2: There’s two of us on this call so I apologize if we step on each other a little bit.
And, I might interrupt, kind of.
Yeah, I’m a graduate student working with [NAME].
And [NAME], I believe you were introduced to [NAME].
He’s a graduate student out of [NAME].
And we’re kind of jointly conducting this project.
And to just, you know, give you a really brief intro as to what we’re doing, I’m going to have you answer any questions.
We’re kind of conducting interviews with people who are forming the, kind of, base group of clinical experts of hoarding disorder as it kind of grows from being established by the DSM-5 as a disorder.
We’re kind of trying to gather knowledge from the group of people who are really the key clinical experts.
And the purpose of this is both to understand what that knowledge looks like at this point in time and also to kind of… The second stage of our project is we’re going to be interviewing individuals with hoarding disorder, and so we’re going to try to do a comparison of the way that those individuals understand their own disorder and the way that it’s understood clinically.
So, if some of the questions that we ask today sound a little bit odd, you know, just thinking about them as being framed in terms of comparing it to what a patient with hoarding disorder might say might clarify for you why we’re asking the particular things that we’re asking.
Interviewee: Sure
Interviewer2: That’s kind of like our short intro, sort of a disclaimer to give you some context.
We have a lot of questions for you and I want to be respectful of your time.
So, if it’s ok with you I can just…
Interviewee: I am in the car.
I’m actually driving back from doing a hoarding training, so I am stuck in the car for the next two and a half hours.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok so good.
We’ll still try to be respectful of your time, but it’s good to know that you are not crunched, and if you need to go at any point or you’re distracted that’s totally fine, just let us know.
Ok?
Interviewee: Ok.
And, actually I’m going to switch you over to just my earbud here just so… because I don’t want you getting the sound of the – Ok I think you’re on the earbud now – just the sound from the road and everything kind of getting in my way.
Ok there we go.
Interviewer2: Yeah that sounds clearer, thank you for that.
Interviewee: Sure!
Interviewer2: Yeah.
Ok so let me go through our informed consent just, you know, to get you acclimated.
I can answer any questions that you have at any point during our conversation, so just going to read you what we have for our informed consent.
Interviewee: Ok.