Interviewer: Yeah, and what about employees of institutions of the state: social workers, homeowner’s associations, police officers?
Do you feel like you see a fair amount of that?
Interviewee: Not so much.
And, I’ve gotten a couple of calls say from a hospital looking to create a discharge plan.
One of the issues that came up during the course of treatment while they were hospitalized is recognition of there being a hoarding situation, “What can we do to connect with services?” There have been some times, and maybe it’s just not happening as much now, when I was working in INSTITUTION there was a INSTITUTION hoarding past course in place for a couple of years.
And so, during that time and then for a couple of years following that if there was a call to the county they would often channel it towards me before trying to connect with resources.
I haven’t worked in INSTITUTION for almost 4 years now, so that might be why I’m not getting those same calls.
And, the county that I’m in now, INSTITUTION, it seems like… Well, at one point someone told me that there is no hoarding in LOCATION, which I find very hard to believe, but I think that the resources… I’m not sure why I’m not getting calls in the same way, because I’m sure that there are cases.
I don’t think their support system, county based, is really any different or more extensive than LOCATION.
They might just be referring elsewhere.
Interviewer: INAUDIBLE kind of thing?
Or, do think that they perceive that it’s not the kind of place that hoarding disorder occurs?
Interviewee: I think that there is a growing awareness of it, but maybe there….
It’s a smaller county, so they might be able to feel they can handle some of the interventions more in house.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: I’m not sure.
Or, it may just be that these individuals are… they’re maybe getting support, they’re already engaged with a therapist.
You know, that might be kind of how if there’s some agency that becomes aware of their big hoarding situation, “Oh well you’re already seeing a therapist, you’re already doing this, so we’re not going to refer out.”
Interviewer: Ok.
So, just to kind of wrap up our interview, we really appreciate you going so long through this with us.
It’s been a really great interview and it’s been a pleasure learning from you so we really appreciate you taking the time to go through really in detail with us.
Interviewee: Happy to do it!
Interviewer: So, yeah, no it’s very, very valuable for us.
Your experiences are really interesting, so the final kind of question that we have for you to close out our interview is to have you go through what you think the biggest things we still don’t know about hoarding disorder are or the unanswered questions in your mind for the future.
Interviewee: Hm.
I have no idea.
One question that came up in the training that I did today would be, and I haven’t looked into this at all, is there any exploration of CBT in working with hoarding clients to deal with the intense emotional issues that can come up in relation to their items?
And, it kind of seems like it would make sense that that would work, but I don’t know if that’s really been explored at all.
Interviewer: That’s interesting, yeah.