Interviewer: That makes sense.
Ok, and so just one more of these things for you to think through, again, thinking about how your patients might answer this question.
“How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding?” How do you think your patients would answer that question?
“How convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding?”
Interviewee: I think a lot of them would say, like percentage wise maybe 60% convinced, and depending on how they would define something bad.
Would it be the end of the world?
No. But, would they feel discomfort, would they feel bad about it?
Probably.
And so, it would be survivable, but they’d still rather not deal with that uncomfortable feeling in the first place.
You know, they’ll kind of say, “If you pushed me I could get rid of it and I’m sure I’d be fine, but I’d feel bad and I’d rather not go through that experience.”
Interviewer: Mhm.
So, less something would happen to them and more they would experience it negatively.
Interviewee: Right, it would more just be the emotional experience rather than “if I didn’t have this my family would disown me,” or some external consequence.
So, “if I don’t keep all of these reports my boss will fire me.”
Interviewer: I’m kind of thinking about those explanations in the list that we generated earlier of reasons that people might give for hoarding behaviors.
Do you think that these are post hoc reasons to justify kind of an underlying pathological need or do you think that they are, in some sense, real reasons?
So, you know, reasons that people give for hoarding, are they post hoc justifications versus actual reasons, and how do you go through that idea?
Interviewee: I’d say, you know, kind of similar to the way you think about an OCD, an obsessive thought with a related compulsion.
There’s a grain of truth to it but that grain is now lost in a whole sand, like a whole beach of sand.
So, I think when you talk about hoarding clients, often I might, one item at a time, “Ok, I can see a reason for wanting to do that.
Ok.”
To a point that makes sense, but it’s taken to such an extreme, that’s where it becomes more problematic.
So, yes, I could understand wanting to hold on to an old vehicle registration because there’s a chance you might need to prove when you had the vehicle or something.
But, if you’re holding onto it, it’s from 20 years ago… now it’s getting too involved.
Now it’s an exaggeration of what did have a piece of… I don’t want to say what made sense because there was a part in there that would have been on the continuum of more typical decision-making behavior, then it went further than that and then it got distorted.