Interviewer2: We’re just trying to get the things that are on the top, you know, the top of your mind when the prompt is read.
Yeah.
Ok, so now we’ll move more into the free form interview section where we’ll have a little bit more of a conversation.
We’re just going to ask you some questions about how you think about this, kind of, clinical picture in your practice and in your work.
And just so to give us some background about you, could you just start out by telling us your background related to this disorder and how you kind of got involved with this?
Interviewee: Sure.
So, I started working with hoarding in 2006.
So, the practice where I had been working at, which was the [INSTITUTION], [NAME] was on staff there and she had been setting up the hoarding program, and when she was leaving the staff to go work elsewhere they were looking to bring somebody else on to work with hoarding.
And, I already had a strong background in working with OCD and with a CBT background, so they said, “If you’re interested we’ll bring you on, and we’ll kind of start orienting you at that point.”
So, that was the first formal work with hoarding disorder at that point, and previous to that I always joke that I enjoy organizing, the container store is one of my favorite places, I have multiple label makers.
So, I already kind of had the mindset of, “how do you deal with stuff,” and then it just kind of got moved into a hoarding situation through getting introduced to it by [NAME].
Interviewer2: What is your training and educational background?
Interviewee: So, my undergraduate is psychology from [INSTITUTION], and then I did my Master’s and my PhD in clinical psych at [INSTITUTION].
Interviewer2: Ok, and do you now see patient’s clinically with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah.
So, I do private practice working with hoarding and OCD spectrum, anxiety, and depression.
Interviewer2: Mhm, and do you also conduct research or is your role mostly clinical?
Interviewee: No, it’s all clinical.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And, you said how long has it been since you started working in hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: 2006.
Interviewer2: Ok.
[NAME], do you want to take over with the next couple questions?
Interviewer 1: Yeah.
So, the first question that we have for you in this section now is, “What for you are the most important differences between normal saving behavior, like collecting for example, and hoarding disorder?”
Interviewee: I think it’s the… I’m trying to… I would put it where there is the detachment of importance to the item.
Kind of, the difficulty making the decision and trying to prioritize what items are more important, less important.
So, tending to apply greater importance across the board, and I think that just ties in with the impaired decision-making process.
So, I feel as though a lot of the emotional attachment is not necessarily that different, but I think it is more intense.
So, yeah.
Interviewer1: More intense and more, I guess, dispersed.
Interviewee: Yeah, so a broader blanket, and more intense emotions and a greater value attached.