Interviewee: Yeah, I think one of challenges, because there is the assumption, the faulty assumption that people who struggle with hoarding don’t want to get better, are treatment resistant.
There do tend to be a lot of negative pieces in there.
I’m trying to think of how to counteract that, because I don’t think that that’s the case at all.
And, I think that’s more of an education and outreach piece as opposed to an understanding of the diagnosis and the treatment approach.
Interviewer: Mhm, mhm.
Well, we really appreciate your time, that was our last question.
Just kind of to close out, we were wondering if you wouldn’t mind telling us, so we’re trying to, as I said, get a really good picture of the clinical community as it exists right now and the way that they’re working through these issues.
And so, if you were to think about the people that you would think we should talk to, thinking especially about people that we might not have heard of, we aren’t in contact with the same network.
If you could come up with some names that we could try to find, people who you think would be valuable additions to the study, we’d greatly appreciate it.
Let me know if anybody comes to mind.
Interviewee: Well I think, I mean the email that NAME sent out, it kind of covered everybody.
Oh… yeah, I mean there is nobody in particular that comes to mind that he wouldn’t have already covered.
Yeah, I can kind of think and go through, you know, my address book to see who else I think of.
But, the main names of who I would think of like NAME and I know that they’re all kind of already on that list.
Unfortunately, there’s not that many treatment providers.
Interviewer: Right, that’s why we’re kind of asking to make sure that we’re just comprehensive.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that it’s pretty comprehensive.
I mean, you could go through, you know just who is listed on ORGANIZATION website or the ORGANIZATION website and the ORGANIZATION website.
Or, I think the hoardingcleanup.com, that listing is a consolidation of ORGANIZATIONS.
But, then that runs into the challenge of are these people who have self-identified in working with hoarding?
So, you don’t necessarily know what work they are doing.
Interviewer: That’s a good suggestion, I mean maybe we’ll go through that list and see who is on it and why.
Good point.
Interviewee: Yeah.