Interviewer2: That makes sense.
Interviewee: And, I think that the defensiveness, I think that depends on how you’re interacting with them.
So, I think as long as you’re not really dealing with the stuff, then that defensiveness wouldn’t be there.
Kind of like if you get between a mama bear and her cub.
If you get between, you know, someone and their clutter I think that’s when the defensiveness tends to come in, especially if they have a history of feeling more criticized and attacked by other people around the hoarding issues and with that not feeling heard or understood by them.
They’ve kind of learned that they need to fight for their position and to fight for their stuff.
Interviewer2: So, they’re feeling like the need to justify themselves right off the bat [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer2: Ok.
Ok, I guess I’ll pick up with the next section which is about, we’re going to kind of return to one of the free listing prompts that talk about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder might have for their behavior.
And, the first thing we’d like you to do is just kind of think through some of the questions from an adapted version of the Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale and we’d like you to just think about your patients and try to think about what, in your experience, your patients would say in response to these questions from the Brown Assessment of Beliefs.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer2: And so, for example, one of the questions is, “What do you think has cause you to have these behaviors and do these behaviors have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause?” So, just from your time spent treating patients, what do you think your patients believe is causing their behaviors?
Interviewee: Hm, I’m thinking of a couple clients in particular where there’s a feeling that they need to either be able to control or compensate for a particular situation.
So, if they were feeling insecure in their ability to complete whatever job it might be.
So, with one client, she’s a doctor with someone else.
She’s already feeling anxious and insecure and unsure of herself.
You know, foreign born, you know, she’s a second wife, so how can she prove that she’s capable and confident and able to fit in?
And, I think that they do come to the awareness that there is a psychiatric issue.
I think it comes as they’re building their insight, recognizing both the depression and the anxiety that have contributed to their participating in the hoarding behaviors, going back decades.
Interviewer2: So, maybe it starts out with more of a, kind of, experiential cause and then over time as they begin to build insight they begin to realize that it’s more of a psychiatric cause.
Interviewee: Right, right.
And, I think they recognize that, kind of, the behaviors that have turned into hoarding behaviors.
Maybe they already had a tendency toward it, but then maybe they got more overwhelmed, more stressed and just were not able to fully cope with it, and that’s when it started to more snowball and become a maladaptive and more disruptive behavior.