Interviewee: Well, I think one of the big pieces is what’s the purpose of that home?
So, is it being shared with other people, what other goals that the various residents have?
So, like I mentioned at the workshop I did today, the standards are going to be very different if there’s a 3-month-old in the house versus a 3-year-old versus a 13-year-old.
And, kind of gauging your threshold for is the stuff interfering based on the safety of the different people living in the home and how they would want to both developmentally, but also just personal interest wise, how they would want to make use of the space.
So, the threshold for clutter is going to be a lot lower for the 3-year-old than for the 13-year-old, as in needed to get maybe call CPS or get other involvement.
And, then I also want to look at the specific circumstances or how are the spaces of the house being used?
So, if there’s a bedroom upstairs that is filled with clutter, but it’s kind of been agreed upon that that is a storage room rather than a used space, as long as the family is in agreement of that, then I think it’s ok.
I think it’s when one person’s decisions about the stuff is then infringing upon the living choices for the other family members.
Interviewer: Do you think home size plays any role in being able to tell or how quickly you might pick up on it?
Interviewee: I think it does.
If you’ve got a mansion it can take a lot longer to fill it up than if you’ve got a studio apartment.
But, I do think that if you’ve got a smaller living space it may seem more like a hoarding situation when it isn’t necessarily just because maybe multiple, there’s multiple uses for one given space.
There was an article in the newspaper about someone living in a very small basement level apartment in I think Boston, and they didn’t have excessive stuff but because they only had like one closet the laundry basket was perpetually sitting out in the main living area, and because there was only one room, basically the laundry basket filled with dirty clothes was sitting in their living room.
And, they felt much more overwhelmed by this than they would have if they had a two-bedroom apartment with a space where they could tuck it behind the door somewhere.