Interviewer: And, do you think that when patients kind of come to you with that insight already that that is something that they’ve come to on their own or do you think that its often their families that assisted in the process?
Interviewee: I think it’s often either the family, but I feel like there’s been some kind of external event that’s been sort of almost like a wakeup call.
So, they’ll have worked with people where it’s been somethings happened at their job where their job is… you know, they’re at a risk for losing their job because of the clutter.
You know so being in the LOCATION area, I’ve had people from different government agencies that the hoarding behaviors have factored into maybe security clearances, and when that’s been brought to their attention and they could be facing charges for this behavior, “Oh wow, I didn’t realize it had been that bad,” when it’s been these behaviors were going on in this context.
Interviewer: Ok, so when they get some outside input.
Interviewee: I think there’s been some outside input.
I even worked with someone where she said, “If I didn’t have that outside input, if I’m not getting feedback about how my problems are… about how these behaviors are problematic, how do I know that they need to change?
Because my perception is that I’m getting by and things are working out ok.”
Interviewer: Yeah, and things can also, I assume, become dangerous when individuals with hoarding disorder start to isolate, because then they don’t have that…
Interviewee: That outside calibration, yeah.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Ok, so in the literature there’s been kind of a breakdown of the concept of insight in hoarding disorder into different constructs and in different ways that lack of insight could be manifestations of other things.
So, we kind of wanted to ask you how prevalent you find the following constructs in your patients.
So, I know despite the fact that a lot of your patients, you said, already have some insight I’m just kind of curious as to whether you’ve seen any of these other things and whether any are more or less prevalent or problematic in your work.
So, those constructs are defensiveness, anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive your illness and the distress, the idea of overvalued ideation, unreasonable belief in the value of the items, and indifference.
Interviewee: I think I’m more likely to see the indifference, and I don’t know if that’s more of the reaction of, “I’ve been dealing with this so ling I’ve kind of stopped caring about it or how it might be having an impact on other people,” or almost like a withdrawal from the situation, almost like a learned helplessness or hopelessness tied into it.
That could come across as indifference.
And, I do think that the overvaluation either of items themselves or the efforts that they’re trying to undertake.
So, “this is so important I have to do this.
I can’t be bothered with something as trivial as the decluttering right now because the other things are more important and more pressing.”
So, not having perspective on how important the decluttering actually would be.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewer: I think that falls into some kind of borderline category between indifferent and maybe overvalued ideation, not realizing what a big difference it would make.
Interviewee: Well and then also not prioritizing the actions that are tied into the decluttering.
You know, so then that’s decision making, how do you choose to spend your time.