Interviewer 2: And, do you feel like, is it… Do you feel like this is more difficult more or less when we’re talking about items that are of low monetary value?
Is it harder to make the distinction when you’re talking about emotional value or aesthetic value?
And, does it matter which culture the patient is from or what their beliefs about items might be?
Interviewee: I think it’s harder when it’s the emotional attachment to items or the emotional value because that really is so strongly based on an individual’s experiences, or kind of how they define their identity.
Whereas if something has more monetary value, we can even just look up what’s the resale value of “x” item?
Or if you’re looking at maybe aesthetic, you know, we can discuss what is appealing about an item.
Just the visual attractiveness.
But, if you’re going to talk about the importance of a child’s stuffed animal, I have no perspective as to which animal is of greater value than another unless I truly know that person and that person’s relationship to each of those stuffies.
And then you layer on the more intense emotional connection, and if you look at kind of the object relations and how these items are acting as extensions of those relationships to other people.
I don’t have that background of who those people are and what they’ve gone through.
So, I think that’s what makes it much more difficult.
I’m thinking from different cultural backgrounds… I’m trying to think of how that has come into play, and I think it’s more asking to be educated by the individuals about where they may be coming from if I’m not aware.
But, it can be really hard to… and I’m just trying to think of what backgrounds various clients have come from.
And, it’s much more kind of giving them the opportunity to share what their stories are and why something would be important in that context and kind of checking my own assumptions at the door as best I can.
Interviewer 2: Mhm.
Yeah, that makes total sense.
The next, kind of, criteria that we’d like you to talk through with us is the one that begins, “The difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.”
So, again, we’re kind of interested in this question of how you make the determination of how much stuff is too much, especially perhaps considering things like home size or other people in the home that might affect the degree of clutter that you see.