Interviewer 1: I don’t know why, but the analogy of one of the qualifiers for diagnosis of substance use disorder would be multiple attempts to cut back and not being able to do so.
Similarly, trying to clean and bring your space under order and not being able to do so as an indicator that there may be a pathological problem.
Interviewee: Yeah, definitely.
Interviewer 1: Ok.
Interviewer 2: Ok, I guess I’ll pick up with the next question.
So, the next section kind of takes off really nicely from that point.
We’d like to talk a little bit more specifically about the DSM 5 criteria and just to hear from you how you apply them and how you construe them and how you use them.
So, you know, I’m assuming you apply these criteria frequently in diagnosing individuals with hoarding disorder and of course of your practice.
Do you feel like, first of all, that there are particular elements of these criteria that might be particularly difficult or ambiguous, or that some clinicians might see differently than others, or do you feel like there’s anything in them that might have to do with the language or might be a matter of clinical judgement more than others?
Interviewee: One part that gets… and I notice it’s kind of the language with most of the diagnoses in the DSM is kind of the rule out.
So, if it’s hoarding disorder the behaviors are not occurring in the context of other diagnoses.
But, I think just the… the fact that there’s such a high rate of co-occurring diagnoses with hoarding disorder.
I think… I’m not sure if the statistics have changed, but like 92% of people who are diagnosed with hoarding disorder are also diagnosed with some other mental health diagnosis at some point in their life.
And so, I think that because there is so much that goes hand in hand, I still diagnose the hoarding disorder, but there are times when someone is maybe feeling, “Well, no this is more just because I’m depressed.
I’m not doing these things… if I wasn’t depressed I wouldn’t have the hoarding issue.”
But, if 57% of people who are diagnosed with hoarding disorder are also struggling with depression, it can be really difficult to separate out, is this a consequence of the depression or is this a freestanding hoarding disorder in addition to depression.
Interviewer 2: And, how do you make that clinical judgement, how do you make that call?
Interviewee: I go more based on what the level of accumulation in the house and how is it interfering... how is the clutter specifically interfering with the daily functioning?
And, is that causing impairment separate from whether or not there is depression?
Interviewer 2: So, you look at the space and the way that the space is impacting their life.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer 2: Mhm, ok.
Ok, that makes a lot of sense.
And it sounds like… do you have the same kind of judgement calls to make in terms of anxiety or is it really mostly just telling if its hoarding or depression?
Or, maybe not just anxiety, but other co-occurring mental health disorders.
Interviewee: I feel like it’s much more with the depression.
I don’t… I feel like with the anxiety it’s a more… it’s easier to separate the two.