Interviewee: I think one of the statistics was like 60 or 70% of American women identify as being, you know, shopping addicts.
But, I don’t know how that term would really be operationalized.
So, is it more just linguistically thrown around similar to, like if someone said, “Oh my gosh I’m so OCD.”
Well, are you really, or is it diagnostic criteria of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder?
You know, how is shopping addiction compared to the actual excessive acquisition and the emotional piece that’s tied into it?
Interviewer2: Ok, so maybe there’s excessive consumption that isn’t a shopping addiction.
People might perceive it as obsessive, but that shopping addiction or that, you know, excessive accumulation of items through hoarding, that’s kind of separate from that but perhaps related as well.
Interviewee: I think so, and then also looking at the excessive acquisition from the hoarding side of things, that is not actual shopping.
Interviewer2: Mhm, great.
Interviewee: And how is… and does that serve the same emotional purpose of shopping addiction or is it functionally different?
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewer2: I see.
Ok, that makes a lot of sense.
It’s a good question, and it’s a good distinction to make kind of between those different levels of acquisition and different, kind of, reasons that people might do it and problems discarding versus purchasing.
[NAME] do you want to ask this kind of next set of questions?
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewer2: This is our kind of last group of questions for you.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer1: Yeah, this is our last series.
So, we’re kind of curious about the typical process that occurs to get patients into your office for treatment or for study participation, and so we talked about in the free listing, you know, the reasons why a person might seek treatment and, you know, experiencing distress or situational crisis or family urging were some of the things that you mentioned.
So, do you feel like people presenting for treatment are normally self-motivated or more often by others?
Interviewee: I think it’s more often by others, at least for maybe the initial appointment and then it transitions over to them more wanting to do it for themselves.
Kind of as they start to maybe better understand what the process would be and they’re realizing that it’s something for them as opposed to something that is against them or them being blamed and chastised.
Interviewer1: Yeah.
Interviewee: It’s more constructive for them.
Interviewer1: Ok, and how long has the hoarding behavior typically been going on before you’ll see patients?
Interviewee: Decades.
Yeah, I’m thinking… A lot of my clients, they’ve been hoarding for probably maybe 25, 30 years.
And, that’s maybe towards the low end because I’ve got clients coming in in their sixties.
It’s been going on in some form or another probably since, easily their thirties if not their twenties.