Interviewer 2: And, do you ever get patients who are in earlier stages of hoarding disorder or have been hoarding for less long?
Interviewee: Well I did have… In my current group, there are two clients who are younger than I am. Which, I’m like wait a second, wow I think this is the first time that’s ever happened. I do have some people that come in where it’s in the earlier stages and maybe they’ve had family members where there’s been a hoarding situation and they don’t want to go as far down the path. Or there’s been a couple people that I’ve worked with who were in their twenties and there was significant clutter that had been going on at that point probably for maybe fifteen years, and they were starting to feel that is was having an impact on their job options or potential relationships. That was enough of a motivator for them to try to get involved in some changes.
Interviewer 2: And just one more follow-up question, sorry [NAME 77:06]. Just wondering if in the course of your, kind of, practice you had developed kind of a sense of the life course of hoarding disorder, like when it typically begins or if that seems to differ from patient to patient.
Interviewee: I definitely see it beginning, I would say by early twenties, and it’s not necessarily in the threshold for it to be a diagnosis of hoarding disorder, but the patterns of thoughts and behaviors that are contributing to the accumulation. So, excessive notetaking in class and keeping the notes semester after semester, making audio recordings of the classes with the idea of going back and listening to them at some later point but never doing it.
Interviewer 1: Ok.
Interviewer 2: And so, that’s pretty consistent that it starts that early?
Interviewee: I think so, yeah. And, some individuals are even talking about as teenagers, just as they’re reflecting back. So, noticing that they’ve had consistent clutter.
Interviewer 2: [INAUDIBLE 78:26]
Interviewee: Yeah, but it’s more… Some of it is when did they have the space and the opportunity to acquire, or when did they maybe get upset with their parents for discarding things? But, I definitely have people who are identifying it going back into teen years, but I can’t think of anyone looking back younger than that.
Interviewer 2: Ok, and you can go ahead [NAME 78:58].
Interviewer 1: And so, I know that we discussed this a little as well in terms of the role that patients’ family and friends play in arriving at the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, and so are there relatives that are more often involved in this process?
Interviewee: I feel like it ends up being siblings. And… I say with the seeking treatment a lot of times it’s the siblings and the spouses as well. I’m thinking back here… I feel like a lot of the times it’s… And with siblings I think pretty evenly between brothers and sisters, but it’s more as adults, “Has there been some kind of crisis? How can we step in? We don’t want, if parents are still alive, we don’t want this to be a burden for mom and dad to have to be dealing with, so how can we start to intervene more now?” And, then I think the spouses tend to be very involved as well.