Interviewer 2: And I really appreciate, again, your time and your thoughtful responses to these questions, which are really interesting and will help us a great deal. So, just to give you some information on what we’re hoping to accomplish, we are now doing our interviews with clinical experts. We’re hoping to do about 30, although it may be more depending on how willing people like you are to share their time with us. And, we’re going to look at those just kind of as a set and kind of see where the group is in terms of their consensus on these issues, where there is a departure, and then we’re going to be recruiting people with problems with clutter, with just the hoarding disorder and talking to them about the same issues. And, hopefully the end product will be to be able to compare the understandings of the providers with those of their patients to see if we can learn a little bit more about where additions might occur and how to develop insight and to people that might still have very low insight. So, that’s our kind of research plan. And, we really appreciate you being part of it, again.
Interviewee: Oh, happy to, it sounds really cool.
Interviewer 2: Yeah, so far it has been a very cool project. It’s a very interesting project, yeah. And so, if you have any questions about it as we go forward or you think of anything or you just want to follow up and see how it’s going, we’re hoping to be able to follow up once we’re done. But, please feel free to reach out, and again thank you so much for your generosity with your time. It is really valuable for us. 
Interviewer 1: Yeah, thank you. Thank you so much.
Interviewee: Well, thank you, I’m definitely wanting to see what the results are and see where it goes from there.
Interviewer 2: Thank you. Well, we’ll be sure to follow up once we finish with our interviews. So, thank you again for your time and have a safe drive home.
Interviewee: You’re welcome. Thank you very much, I’ll hear from you later.
Interviewer 1: Thank you.
Interviewer 2: Yeah, take care. Bye.