Interviewer2: Ok.
Interviewer1: Ok, so the last question kind of ties into the next topic that we want to cover which is insight.
And so, the literature surrounding hoarding disorder has described a number of people with hoarding disorder as often having low insight.
So, can you tell us how you define insight?
Interviewee: I think it comes from, how did they explain the situation to me?
And again, I’ve got a biased pool here because most of the individuals that I work with are… I mean they’re all voluntarily participating in services, so they’ve got some degree of insight.
I think as they try to describe the level of clutter or the consequences that have resulted from their having clutter that’s where that level of insight… Do they see the… How well are they able to articulate a connection the clutter itself and, you know, if there’s some kind of negative circumstance that they’re experiencing?
But, ones who don’t have as much insight are dismissing that the clutter is that problem.
They’re tending to do more externalizing, I think.
Interviewer1: What do you mean, externalizing?
Interviewee: Putting responsibility of the situation… they didn’t have the resources that they needed to be able to effectively organize the situation, the landlord was being unreasonable about how the space needed to be maintained, it really wasn’t problematic.
I mean, I think it’s often that, you know, if there was some concern regarding eviction or child welfare, they got… the inspection happened on an off day where somebody did something the day before that made it more cluttered kind of putting the responsibility elsewhere.
But, the majority of people that I have been working with, you know, they do recognize the direct connection between the negative situation and their clutter, they do have fair insight into it, but I think it’s taken a while for that insight to build.
So, I’m coming in after they’ve kind of been in this process for a while.
Interviewer1: Ok.
And, so do you have any knowledge about how patients successfully gain insight, or how you might help a patient try to gain insight?
Interviewee: I think that a big part is in as nonjudgmental a way as possible kind of trying to point out kind of how are things connected.
How do these things feed into one another?
So, being able to highlight patterns that they may have either not seen or atttributed to other causes.
And, then tying that in with the nonjudgmental piece of it… because I think that one of the things that maybe someone might avoid acknowledging that connection is if they’re afraid they’re going to be judged or criticized.
But, if it’s just straight forward and matter of fact, this is how it is but what can we do about it, kind of creating the hope or the potential that things can still be done differently, then they may be more open to acknowledging the connection that’s there otherwise.