Interviewer1: Ok, ok.
And, can you tell us, you know, what are the demographics of the typical patient with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well, demographics of the clients that I see?
Interviewer1: Yeah, the clients that you see or if you think that there is a difference between the clientele that you see and the typical individual with hoarding disorder in the country, maybe speaking to that as well.
Interviewee: Right, well I think with who I see, it’s generally female, and with my client base its mostly Caucasian, but I know that that’s not representative.
I think that’s more of where my practice tends to be.
Age range, I’d probably put it at, probably in the upper 50’s for the clients who are seeking treatment.
The age is starting to come down a bit.
I do have clients now, you know, coming down to maybe more, low 50’s, upper 40’s.
And then, socioeconomics, you know, again, the clients I see are self-pay and they are often self-referred, so they tend to be more either middle to upper-middle SES.
Interviewer1: Ok, and do you feel like any of those demographics that you described are translatable to the hoarding population at large?
Interviewee: I feel like the age definitely is, and I just feel like in general women are more likely to seek out mental health services than men are.
So, that’s where the question of is it more being referred to services or seeking out services versus more of a crisis intervention where the clutter has gotten extremely worse.
I feel like that kind of skews the sampling in there.
Interviewer1: Yeah, definitely.
And, do you have any idea why the age has been coming down, that you’ve noticed in the individuals that you see?
Interviewee: Well I think that there’s a growing awareness about the fact that there are services available.
So, either people are aware themselves in wanting to seek out support or family members are more likely to intervene and encourage that they need to seek treatment.
Yeah, I think that maybe previously there may have been a forced clean out without the supportive mental health services.
Whereas now there is an attempt to do it in a more sensitive way.
Interviewer1: Ok.
And can you think of a specific case or cases that were challenging to diagnose because they were on the border between pathological and non-pathological, maybe subclinical, and kind of talk about how you made that distinction?
Interviewee: I’m trying to think of someone in particular.
So, with one person, this was actually pretty recent, they tried to make the distinction between was it a mental health issue versus, as he put it, was it more of a management issue?
More of a… was it a skill deficit?
Where, if he just had the skills there wouldn’t be a clutter issue, and just during the process of the conversation as he started to identify his expectations for what his intentions were, what he wanted to do with the items, versus the practicality of, “would he actually have the time and the resources to do all of those things,” was one distinguishing element.
Then also, being able to identify the past efforts to clean up at the encouragement of his loved ones and his inability to be able to do so.
That was another indication that it was more of a hoarding issue rather than a skills deficit.
Because, he had multiple attempts of trying to learn the skills and not being able to do so.
Interviewer1: Ok, ok.
Interviewee: Yeah.