Interviewer2: Mhm, and kind of just thinking through that and thinking about whether you can think of hoarding as kind of a thought process disorder or something that’s more biologically based, thinking about which came first.
Was it the thought or was the thought just kind of justifying something that was already there?
So, it is a disorder of the way that people think about things versus their thoughts are just kind of covering up a biological need of some kind?
Interviewee: That’s a really interesting question.
I think that there’s a piece of it where there’s already that initial urge or pull to keep the item and then maybe trying to put a layer of explanation over top of it to justify.
But, then I also think that then that behavior gets reinforced and then the justification, you’re able to find validity to support that thought process.
Interviewer2: [INAUDIBLE] Well, that’s actually easily separable.
[INAUDIBLE] But, do you think that it’s kind of biology, the need comes first and everything is kind of layered?
[INAUDIBLE]
Interviewee: Um, I think for some people, yes, but I feel like there’s going to be some individuals where it really it is really much more of a learned and modeled behavior than something that is kind of biologically almost pre-programmed.
And, that’s why I’m thinking more, like, what life events have they had?
Interviewer2: And do you think… Right, right so some of them perhaps it’s more of a learned behavior or something that they’ve done to cope with an event, whereas other people perhaps it’s more of an urge that then gets justified.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer2: Ok.
And, do you think that cultural forces perhaps associated with value and self-worth and consumption and ownership of material possessions play any role in the development of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: This I’m not sure of, because with the talk I did earlier today one of the questions – this was for professional organizers – they had the question about shopping addiction.
So, I did very cursory reading about kind of the pressures for being more materialistic and kind of the identification of feeling… how you’re defining your own sense of worth as associated with the acquisition of items.
I feel like it does tie into the excessive acquisition behaviors that you would see with hoarding disorder or it can.
But, I’ve heard enough and seen enough where there are people where they do the excessive acquisition, but then they also are able to let go of those items.
So, it’s more like a revolving door, whereas I think with the hoarding situation the stuff is coming in and it’s staying.
I know [NAME] had like a street map sign for one of the presentations where it’s talking about the acquisition and feeling good, almost like an addictive behavior, and then, kind of, the high wears off more and more quickly, and having that be an addiction.
But, I don’t know how that compares to the general population.
Interviewer2: Ok.