Interviewer: And, so how long has it…how has the illness progressed over time, how has it come to…?
Interviewee: Over time, it seems to get worse.
Interviewer: Ok.
And then as they age, do you feel like the illness worsens or do you feel like, um, for instance social factors like the isolation of children leaving home or spouses dying or…
Interviewee: Well those things have an influence because if the kid’s living at home, the mother might force them to clean up their room so when he leaves to live on his own, he can do what he wants because mom isn’t there to force him to clean up.
If someone’s in a relationship, often the spouse will say, will force the hoarder to clean up or at least allow…you know, if the hoarder’s a woman, maybe the man will clean up because he can’t stand the hoarding, so a divorce, a death allows the hoarder to essentially live any way they like and often that’s an opportunity for the hoarding to get out of control.
Interviewer: Yeah.
A lot of the experts that we’ve talked to have said that hoarding tends to be more of a problem on elderly people.
We’re kind of trying to get at whether that is because it is a progressive illness that worsens as people age or whether that’s a result of, you know, possessions accumulating over time, perhaps changes in levels of their social support as they get older…
Interviewee: I think, I think all of the things contribute because a) they might not have a spouse to keep the hoarding in check, b) they’re older, so they’ve accumulated stuff over a lifetime so they probably have more stuff or they have a large house and the kids are out of the home so there’s more space to accumulate stuff.
And, you know, lastly, they may not be working, so when they’re working, maybe they don’t have the time or energy to put into the hoarding, but if they’re out of the workplace, they can spend as much time with hoarding as they want.
So there’s all these factors that seem to contribute.
Interviewer: Ok.
And I appreciate that you talked through that for me.
The final question is kind of about research related to hoarding disorder.
And when you look at the current state of research on hoarding disorder, what for you are the biggest unanswered questions about this disorder?
Interviewee: Could you repeat that?
I lost just a little bit of what you said.
Interviewer: Oh no. I said, as you kind of look over the current state of research regarding hoarding disorder, what are, for you, the biggest unanswered questions or the biggest things that we still don’t know about this disorder?
Interviewee: Well, there are a number of things we don’t know.
We don’t know exactly what causes it.
Most experts think it’s a combination of environment and genetic elements, but there, you know, there may be other factors at play.
The other thing is: we really don’t know how to treat it.
There are models to treat this with CBT, medication doesn’t work particularly well, so we need to figure out treatments that are more effective.
Interviewer: And for you…
Interviewee: So there’s this unaddressed need to develop effective treatments.