Interviewer: …yeah, to impact it.
In the literature, there’s been a breakdown of this concept of insight into a bunch of different constructs for many different disorders.
They’re forming ones that have been kind of talked about in the context of hoarding.
These are defensiveness, anosognosia – or lack of ability to perceive the illness and that something is wrong – overvalued ideation – which is the unreasonable belief of the value of items – and indifference.
For you, do you feel like, with the patients that you’ve seen, any one of these four is the predominant problem of insight?
And so being defensive, might be someone who just doesn’t want to deal with the problem versus someone who has anosognosia who really doesn’t see that they have an illness.
Interviewee: I mean you see all of these things to varying degrees in most of the patients, but…I don’t actively think about those things when evaluating or treating a patient.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: I’m not sure, I’m not sure if it would help me one way or another.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: If the patient has no insight, I’m not gonna, I’m not gonna be able to give them insight.
Interviewer: Right.
Ok. Um, again kind of thinking through the understanding that patients have of their disorder, when you talk to patients with hoarding disorder about what’s going on with them, what do you think the patient would say is the underlying cause of their disorder?
Do feel like patients have a sense of what has caused them to be this way or is there…
Interviewee: So what you’re asking, what they tell me is the cause?
Interviewer: Yes.
Interviewee: Um, I’m not sure.
I always ask people, well why do you do this?
“Oh I’ve always done it or my mother taught me to save.”
Or some of the older patients would say “well I grew up poor and we didn’t want to throw things away because we might need them.”
You know, like people who are old enough to survive the Depression.
Interviewer: And um, kind of in your mind as you hear people give explanations either of the disorder itself or of the reasons for saving.
So a patient might say “I’m saving this, you know, item because it has sentimental value or because I might need it later,” do you feel like these reasons…
Interviewee: Yeah, they typically, they say those things.
Interviewer: Do you think that those are real, real reasons or do you think that they’re kind of post-hoc justifications for an underlying need?
Interviewee: I would think that they’re justifications.
Interviewer: So you think…
Interviewee: Every patient justifies their illness.
It doesn’t matter what the illness is, they all have some explanation.
Interviewer: So you think that the behavior comes first and then the rationale behind the need…
Interviewee: And then the rationale.
Interviewer: …follows.
Ok. Next we’re kind of curious of what clinical experts have seen with their patients in terms of the life course of hoarding disorder or in terms of how it changes over time.
Do you have a sense for how long the hoarding behavior has typically been going on before you see patients?
Interviewee: Well, it depends on how old they are.
Typically, for most people I’ve seen, they’ve had hoarding for years or even decades.
Interviewer: Ok.
So…
Interviewee: Many years or decades.
Interviewer: Ok.
So do you have a sense for when in people’s lives it tends to begin, so in childhood…?
Interviewee: Probably by their twenties.
Sometimes their twenties, maybe before that.