Interviewer: Hi NAME  how are you?
This is NAME  again.
Interviewee: Ok.
Well that sounds like a better connection already.
Interviewer: I’m really hoping so.
I just gave it a couple of test calls to make sure that we would be clear, but uh…
Interviewee: Ok, yeah.
Interviewer: I apologize in advance if we have problems.
I really can’t figure out what is going on.
Well I appreciate your time and trying again to do this interview with me.
I will very briefly kind of re-explain what we’re doing and then we’ll just get into it so that I don’t use up any more of your time, if that’s okay.
Interviewee: Yeah, go ahead.
Interviewer: Ok.
So this is a project that is aimed at gathering expert knowledge on hoarding disorder.
And we’re kind of looking at the disorder from a, I don’t want to say theoretical level, but at a high level to try to understand the ways that experts conceive of what constitutes hoarding disorder.
So we’ll be talking about kind of the boundary between hoarding and normal behavior and what, in your mind, really are the hallmarks of this disorder.
The aim of the study is to try to understand kind of two-fold.
One is to understand the state of our clinical knowledge of hoarding disorder at this point.
Then, what we’d like to do is to compare the perspective of experts to the perspective of patients.
And the purpose of doing this is to try to understand patient insight and to try to understand if there are disjuncts in the ways that patients and experts understand what constitutes hoarding disorder.
And if we can perhaps leverage our understanding of those maybe different perspectives to try to get people into treatment for hoarding sooner.
So that’s the purpose of what we’re doing today.
The way that the study is organized is we are employing a snowball sampling methodology.
We started with a core group of experts and then they recommended the people that they think know the most about hoarding disorder in the world, and that’s how we got your name.
And what we’re going to do today has two parts.
One part is called free-listing, and that’s kind of, uh, an exercise in which…
Interviewee: What did you say that was?
Interviewer: It’s called free-listing.
Interviewee: Free-listing?
Interviewer: Uh-huh.
Interviewee: Ok.
Interviewer: It’s a social science methodology where we ask participants to generate a list of items off the top of their head.
And then we’ll statistically compare the different lists that people produce to see if we can understand differences in the ways they think about topics based on items that are in their lists and the order that they’re in.
So we’re specifically gonna compare the lists generated by experts with the lists generated by patients.
And then the second part of our talk today will be kind of a semi-structured interview, so it will be much more conversational and freeform.
And I’ll kind of walk you through some questions on this topic.
Does that all sound okay with you?
Interviewee: Sure.