Interviewee: When I see them or the patient sees them?
Interviewer: Yeah.
I mean…
Interviewee: The patient, the patient sees everything as having some value to them, whether it’s monetary, or sentimental, or other.
But, I mean, clearly some of the things they describe to me you can, you know, you can sell on the internet, or garage sale, you can return them to the store and get some money, and so it’s, you know, it’s kind of a combination.
Interviewer: So would you characterize hoarding disorder as being a problem with valuation, so an inability to distinguish between items that are valuable and items that are not valuable?
I don’t know if that question makes sense.
Interviewee: That can be part of it.
I don’t think that’s an important element though.
Interviewer: Ok.
When you think about the patients that you’ve seen with hoarding disorder, can you think of a specific case or cases that were perhaps challenging to diagnose either clinically or in research because it was on the border between pathological and non-pathological behavior?
Interviewee: I can think of one case where a man collected books and his wife was quite distressed by it and the way she described it, he sounded like a hoarder.
But he denied that he was a hoarder and said that all the books were valuable and the living spaces were usable, so I basically considered him a collector.
Interviewer: Ok.
And that was because…
Interviewee: But that was, that was an example of where it was hard to draw the line.
Interviewer: And how did you draw the line?
I mean it sounds like it was based on the…
Interviewee: It was based on the fact that, at least by his description, you know this was a while back, I can’t remember what his wife said but the living spaces were usable and in fact everything he had could be sold, had some value.
So he wasn’t just saving food wrappers or, you know, trash, or things like those.
Interviewer: So it wasn’t indiscriminate?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: Ok.
We’d like to talk for a minute about the DSM five criteria for hoarding disorder.
We’re talking these through with clinicians because we would like to see how different clinicians apply them in practice.
Are there any particular elements of the DSM five criteria that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that you think that different clinicians may apply differently due to things like the language or clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Well, let me look up the criteria.
Interviewer: I’m gonna…I have some phrases from the criteria…
Interviewee: I have a DSM five right in front of me.
Now let’s see…a persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions – now that’s fairly easy to assess.
The difficulties due to perceived need to save the items and the distress associated – that’s fairly easy.
See the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions – that’s pretty easy.
Although, sometimes patients don’t accurately describe what they’re doing but relatives, if a relative’s present, they usually help.
The hoarding causes distress or repairment – that’s usually self-evident.
The hoarding is not attributable to another medical condition – that’s usually easy to use.
The hoarding is not better explained by the symptoms of another mental disorder – I have some problem with that and if you want me to explain, I will.