Rebecca: And what right now is your sense of kind of the current state of CBT with regards to hoarding disorder? I guess, you know, in laymen’s terms why do you think that it doesn’t work, why do you think that it doesn’t work very well?
Interviewee: Because every single hoarder patient that I’ve had has been referred for CBT and usually experts in OCD who understand hoarding and they’ve been trained in some of these models and the patient won’t persist, the patient won’t; it’s not that the treatment itself doesn’t offer something, it’s that the patient won’t do what the therapist tells them to do or they won’t persist at it.
Rebecca: Umm and, so there’ve been, so when we’ve had conversations with clinical experts, there’s kind of a divide in terms people who see hoarding as more related to OCD in terms of anxiety regarding discarding possessions versus others who see it as having a relationship to disorders that, like compulsive gambling where they have pleasure associated with acquiring. Umm, for you, where would you see hoarding on kind of like the spectrum between those differences?
Interviewee: Well my idea was that hoarding should not have been designated as an independent disorder. I see it as part of OCD. I see it as kind of a sub…essentially as a subtype of OCD because as I said earlier, I can’t think of a hoarding patient I’ve ever seen who did not also have typical OCD behaviors like checking, washing, counting, et cetera. And virtually, well not virtually all, but probably 30-50% of OCD patients I’ve treated have some element of hoarding.
Rebecca: So do you…
Interviewee: It’s not a preponderant problem, but they have some tendency. So to me, the overlap is so great that I thought it was a mistake to designate it as an independent disorder because I certainly don’t see it that way.
Rebecca: And do you see this kind of a pleasure component with acquiring with your hoarding patients or do you kind of find that to be…
Interviewee: No, no because most patients say “You know, I really don’t like this, it’s upsetting” so, you know, we try to take the item away from them, we try to get them to throw it away. I mean, you can even just talk threw this with them and they get progressively more anxious or more upset, so their behavior’s no different from what you see with a typical OCD patient.
Rebecca: Ok, well I really appreciate your time…
Interviewee: Now, now there is a subgroup of people who hoard who might be said to have compulsive shopping, I’ve read quite a bit about that. And those people do enjoy the shopping, they enjoy buying items, fantasizing about shopping, et cetera. And some of those people sound like hoarders because they buy so much that their house is cluttered with all these items that they have bought to satisfy their compulsive shopping, but to me, that’s kind of a subgroup, separate but slightly overlapping problem. You can compare a compulsive shopper to the person with gambling disorder, certainly because, you know, those are both driven by pleasure.
Rebecca: And um, it sounds like in terms of your understanding of hoarding disorder, it’s a combination of either a genetic predisposition or behavioral modeling.
Interviewee: I think so.