Interviewer: As I mentioned the last time we talked, but I’m not sure you could hear me then, this is obviously all confidential.
So what will happen at the close of this interview is we will have… we’re gonna make a recording once the interview begins and that will be transcribed.
Anything that could identify you in any way will be removed from the subsequent transcription and then the original recording will be destroyed.
So there shouldn’t be anything to identify you and obviously nothing identifying you will be published or released from our university.
Is that all okay with you?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s fine.
Interviewer: Right, ok so they might come in because they’re personally distressed by their behavior because they’re encouraged by their friends or relatives or because there’s a local agency that’s intervened in their lives somehow and are forcing them to deal with their…
Interviewee: Well the agency can’t force them to do anything, but the agency can force them to clean up or may go in and clean up their yard and send them a bill, and then the patient might be personally distressed and because of that experience it may contribute to them coming in.
Interviewer: Ok.
Those are the lists that we have for you today and to kind of move into the interview, I’d just like to start by asking you to describe for me a little bit of your background relating to hoarding disorder, your training, and your current either research or practice.
Interviewee: So I’m a psychiatrist.
I’ve been treating OCD, hoarding, and related disorders since the late 1980s.
I’ve conducted research over the years.
I’ve published widely on OCD and some on hoarding, I give lectures on OCD and hoarding disorder, and I personally treated dozens, uh probably dozens of hoarders and probably a couple thousand OCD patients.
Interviewer: Ok.
Are you currently seeing patients with hoarding disorder clinically?
Interviewee: A few.
Interviewer: Ok.
So to kind of start the conversation about your views on hoarding, if you were to explain to someone who knew nothing about hoarding, what you think the most important differences are between normal saving behavior, such as collecting perhaps, and hoarding disorder?
How would you distinguish hoarding disorder from normal saving behavior?
Interviewee: That the person is unable to discard unimportant items or items that otherwise lack value and because of the that, the living spaces become unusable.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: Or they become cluttered and in the worse cases, they’re not usable.
Interviewer: Ok.
Is it possible to hoard items that have, um that have value?
I mean can one be a hoarder if one kept valuable items instead of worthless items?
Interviewee: So you’re asking if someone can hoard things that do have value?
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: Yes, absolutely.
Interviewer: Ok.
And can you think of a case or…
Interviewee: I don’t recall having a patient like that.
I have had patients who save valueless items as well as items that arguably have some value.
Interviewer: Mm-hmm.
So it seems like for you the question of valuation, perhaps it’s a matter of not distinguishing between valuable and unvaluable items when you see them.
Is that, would that be correct?