Interviewer: Yes, please.
Go ahead.
Interviewee: So, uh, well let’s see so…I guess that allows me to also diagnose obsessive compulsive disorder but I think that quite a, a good, a fairly high percentage of OCD patients have some hoarding but it may not rise to the level of hoarding disorder.
And I’ve rarely seen hoarders who don’t have a few typical OCD symptoms.
Sometimes there’s some overlap that makes me wonder if I should be diagnosing OCD, or hoarding disorder, or both.
Interviewer: Do you ever have trouble with other potentially commonly comorbid conditions like depression?
Do you find that that is uh…
Interviewee: No, I mean, that is self-evident if it’s present.
Interviewer: Ok.
So mostly it’s kind of maybe not a cross-over but an overlap between OCD symptoms, which many hoarders display, and hoarding?
Is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah that’s correct.
Interviewer: How do you make the decision as to which diagnosis is kind of predominant or primarily…
Interviewee: Well, to me, if they meet criteria for both independently, I’ll give them both diagnoses.
To me, for hoarding disorder to be diagnosed, it really has to be a preponderant problem.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: If it’s just some minor hoarding, I’ll chalk that up to OCD.
Interviewer: I’d like to return to the part of the DSM five that talks about congesting and cluttering active living areas and compromising intended use of the person’s space.
Interviewee: Yeah ok.
Interviewer: Do you, do you…How do you make that determination, not just because you can’t see their space, but considering things like home size where someone might inhabit quite a small space like a trailer and fewer possessions would clutter their space relative to someone who has, you know, a really large house or the ability to buy a storage unit.
So do you ever take that into account or how does that affect?
Interviewee: That doesn’t seem to be a problem with the diagnosis because if people have tiny homes and they’re otherwise neat and tidy, you know, the behavior of hoarders is so distinctive that it’s hard to confuse that with someone who simply doesn’t have a lot of space available.
The person without much space might, you know, it’s still gonna be neat and tidy, stack things up carefully, and fold things carefully, or box them up.
Hoarders just tends to kind of throw things around and clutter the space and they don’t necessarily tidy up very well.
Interviewer: So you think that…
Interviewee: So now, now I’m not seeing this but I ask patients, you know, would I be horrified if I saw your home?
If you invited me over to your home, what would I say?
What would I see?
Describe it to me.
Interviewer: Mm-hmm.