Interviewee: And patients are usually uh, at least my long-term patients are usually fairly honest with me in describing what I would see.
And if they’re doing worse, they tell me that.
“Oh [NAME] it’s worse.
I’m, you know, my hoardings out of control.”
Often they’ll be able to at least tidy up some space so they can have a chair to sit in, tabletop to use, but sometimes they can’t even do that.
Interviewer: So you feel like…
Interviewee: You have to, you have to ask a series of detailed, aggressively more detailed questions in order to get at it sometimes, but…
Interviewer: But do you feel like people accurately describe their space?
So I guess that’s another, the question is does it seem to be a problem where people don’t see the clutter in the same way that someone who does not have hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well, some of them don’t, some of them don’t seem to have a whole lot insight and maybe the spouse is the main complainer, is the person reporting and complaining about it.
And the hoarder may say “oh it’s not a problem, you know, those are valuable items, we need to keep them.”
And the spouse is “no it is garbage, we need to get rid of it.”
And other hoarders I’ve are treated are completely upfront, “I know it’s terrible, I hate it, it’s abnormal, I know it’s abnormal.”
The ones who seem to lack insight tends to be a minority of the patients.
Interviewer: That actually brings us really nicely to the next section of the interview which we’re going to talk specifically about insight.
So as we kind of turn to those questions.
The first thing I’d like to have you do is define insight for me.
How would you define insight for someone with hoarding disorder?
Or how would you describe…
Interviewee: The patient is, says “I’m a hoarder.
I save things that I don’t need to.
My house is cluttered.
I can’t use, I can’t enjoy my house.
And I know it’s abnormal.”
To me, that’s uh, that’s good insight.
Interviewer: Ok.
And it sounds like in your practice, most of the patients you see have fairly high levels of insight when you see them.
Interviewee: Most of my patients have good insight.
Interviewer: Ok.
Have you ever seen patients who have come in with very low insight?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: And when you see those patients, do you have a process for helping patients try to gain insight or…
Interviewee: I don’t think you can, I don’t think you can.
I don’t think you can teach them insight.
They either have it or they don’t.
So if I tried to spend my time improving their insight, I’d be wasting my time.
Interviewer: Ok.
And do you have a sense for the patients that you see how they acquired insight, if they always had insight into their problem or if something happened to help them?
Interviewee: Well, the ones I am thinking of always had insight and over…I am thinking of one patient in particular whose hoarding has progressively gotten worse as she’s gotten older.
Interviewer: Mm-hmm.
And you feel like she’s just always been aware that it’s been a problem.
Interviewee: She’s always been aware.
She’s very distressed by it.
Interviewer: Ok.
Interviewee: But she feels powerless to do anything about it.
Interviewer: Ok.
So it’s not a problem of her not knowing that, it’s an issue of…
Interviewee: No, no. She knows.