You know people who are collectors, you know view what they are doing as a hobby and get a sense of enjoyment out of their collections and they like to engage in behavior around those kinds of possessions.
You know when people have hoarding disorder, you know the behavior of saving tends not to bring them a whole lot of pleasure, I mean it may bring a sense of emotional comfort, but it’s not exactly fun for them.
And they don’t really engage in the kinds of behaviors associated with collecting, they don’t really pick up their stuff and look at it and play with it, and do things with it.
They mostly let it sit and collect dust in their homes.
Interviewer: So just to repeat back to you what you said and make sure I file it correctly.
There seems in your mind to be two main differences, one has to do with the degree of impairment, and by impairment in this case you mean inability to do very basic things in their home, correct?
Or is there a different way you would define impairment?
Interviewee: That inability to do basic things in the home as well as the ability to live safety in the home.
Interviewer: So, it’s very kind of concretely linked to the home itself and their ability to exist in their home environment.
Interviewee: Yes, I think that’s a big piece of it.
Interviewer: And then the second piece that you mentioned has to do with kind of the activities that go along with the saving behavior and the degree of enjoyment.
Whereas for someone who is collector they use these things, they take pleasure in them where as someone with hoarding disorder doesn’t necessarily engage with the items once they have been acquired.
Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right, and they don’t derive much of a sense of pleasure from their items.
Interviewer: Okay, so your sense is that a person with this disorder doesn’t get as much satisfaction out of their behavior as a collector.
Interviewee: No, I don’t think so.
I think that they are often afraid to give up those things and they may feel a sense of comfort from having those possessions but I don’t think most of them would describe it as fun, you know which is really what collectors have to say.
Interviewer: That’s interesting, so it seems like in your mind this disorder then is much more linked to kind of obsessive compulsive spectrum where you are anxious about giving it up and maybe less related to something like compulsive gambling or compulsive shopping where you are actually enjoying the activity of acquiring, or is that not correct?
Interviewee: Well there’s sort of two different pieces to hoarding.
There is the acquiring and then there’s the saving.
And those are two slightly different issues, and my response to the questions was largely around the issue of saving.
I do tend to think that saving is often quite fear based, but I think the acquiring does have more to do with impulsivity where the person has a difficulty delaying gratification.
As a result, when they see something that catches their eye they are not thinking critically about it.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: So I think there is probably two processes that kick in and that’s why I think hoarding overlaps somewhat with the obsessive compulsive kind of disorders, but I also think it overlaps somewhat with the impulse control disorders.