Interviewer: The interview tends to take about 60 minutes.
If you don’t have 60 minutes rights now we can stop at any time.
I will go ahead and read you the informed consent and you can let me know if you have any questions or if there is anything that I can clarify.
Interviewee: Sounds cool.
Let’s just do it.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, I will just go through the informed consent really fast and let me know.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, you are volunteering to participate in a research project conducted by Carl Mathews from the University of Florida.
Interviewee: Yep.
Interviewer: The aim of this study is to better understand the ways that researchers and clinicians think about hoarding disorder.
You will be one of approximately one of 50 people who are being interviewed for this research.
Your participation is of course voluntary and you will not be paid.
There are no direct benefits to you in participating and the biggest risk is a violation of your confidentiality.
You can withdraw and discontinue participation without any penalty.
If you decline to participate or withdraw there will be no consequences and no one will be told.
INAUDIBLE Most interviewees find the discussion interesting and thought provoking but if you feel uncomfortable in any way during the interview session you have the right to decline to answer any questions or to end the interview.
Interviewee: Okay.
Got it.
Interviewer: Participation in this study involves being interviewed by us researchers from the University of Florida.
We are thinking the interview will last about 60 minutes and we are going to take notes and audio record the interview.
After the interview, a transcription will be made of the audio recording so if you do not want to be recorded you will not be able to participate in this study.
The recording will then be transcribed and all information that could identify you will be removed from the transcription and then will we destroyed the audio recording.
We will also not identify you by name in any reports, your confidentiality as a participant will remain secure, and obviously subsequent use of records of data will be subject to standard data use policies, which protect the anonymity of individuals and institutions.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: Faculty and administrators from my campus will not be present at the interview and will not have access to notes or transcripts.
And we are hoping that this will prevent your individual comments from having any negative repercussions.
We have IRB approval from our institutional review board at the University of Florida and I can send you contact information for Dr. Mathews who is the PI on this study or the IRB if you would like that at any time.
Okay?
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: All sound good?
Interviewee: Yep.
Interviewer: Any questions?
Interviewee: Nope.
Interviewer: Okay, perfect.
So those are all the listing exercises that we have.
Now we are going to move into more of a semi-structured interview, so it’s going to be more conversational.
Tollin: That’s fine.
Interviewer: So just to begin, if you wouldn’t mind briefly telling me your background related to hoarding disorder and how you are involved in either research or patient care.
Interviewee: Sure.
Well I conduct research on the topic of hoarding disorder, in particular I conduct research on both the neurobiology of hoarding disorder as well as the cognitive behavioral treatment of hoarding.
I also oversee… INAUDIBLE
Interviewer: Hello, did I lose you?
Interviewee: INAUDIBLE
Interviewer: Hello?
Hello, I think I lost you for a second there.
Hello.