Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah. I mean it’s tricky because if you then challenge somebody with hoarding disorder about their possessions and say, why don’t you throw this old soda can away? Then they will say its valuable, you know in some way. I don’t know if that was the actual reason they were saving it in the first place, you know?
Rebecca: Right. 
Interviewee: I think the reasons people give when you push them are not necessarily the actual reasons they are doing it.
Rebecca: Right and that’s a question I was actually going to ask you later is: whether you feel the explanations are kind of post doc reasons to justify an underlying pathological need or if kind of the hoarding reasoning or thought processes is what came first or if the thought process is a product of them just justifying what they are doing?
Interviewee: I love that question. I have friendly disagreements with my colleagues around this issue. I think my gut reaction is that this is all post talk reasoning. I think that people hang onto things and I think they are compelled to save things for reasons they themselves don’t fully understand. I don’t think the average hoarder truly knows why her does what he/she does. I think that if you push them and you try to get them to throw something away then they will tell you a spec of plausible sounding story about. But I don’t think a plausible sounding story was the actual reason they saved it in the first place. 
Rebecca: Right. So, for you it’s a behavior that they do and then they watch themselves doing it and then they come up with reasons why they’ve done it. 
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean, I tend to think of hoarding a little more behaviorally and neurobiologically rather than cognitively as some of my colleagues do.
Rebecca: That was going to be my follow up is you could imagine two reasons why people are doing things that they don’t understand why they are doing and one is a biological explanation which is that their brain is wired that way and the others is more kind of like a physiological explanation which is that they have unconscious desires that they don’t necessarily have access to? But it sounds like you kind of got on the biological side of that. 
Interviewee: I mean I am all for the psychological explanation but I don’t think that that necessarily means that I am conscious that there are things that I am aware of. 
I mean I tend not to draw much of a bright line between biology and psychology, it’s just they are different expressions of the same thing. But if you think biologically for a minute, you know we know that when people have hoarding disorder and they are looking at a possession and they have to make a decision that they’re saline’s network goes haywire. And they get frozen and they can’t make a decision and then they save the thing. And then you can ask them later why did you save it and they will say I didn’t want to waste it or something like that, but you know I suspect that really the reason they saved it and the thing that they can’t quite put their finger on is they couldn’t throw it away because their saline network was so active it overloads the funnel of the more logical part of their brain. That’s not the sort of thing that most of us can self-report on.