Interviewer: Along the same lines of thinking about the difference between somebody who is exhibiting kind of normal saving behavior and somebody with hoarding disorder.
Can you think of a specific case or cases that you encountered either clinically or in research where you felt it was challenging to diagnosis someone because they were either exhibiting either unusual kinds of behaviors or they were right on that boarder line between clinical and subclinical?
Interviewee: So, you are asking me if I can identify a case where it was not clear whether it was clinical or not?
Interviewer: Yeah.
I mean, can you think of a person where it was a difficult call to say whether were exhibiting a variant of normal behavior or if they truly had hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, sure.
I can think of a few people like that.
Interviewer: And when you encounter cases like that how do you make that distinction, what really makes the difference for you?
Interviewee: I think what really makes the difference for me is the degree of functional impairment.
So, the question really becomes, in the case I’m thinking about, the questions was very much is this person just messy and or they truly engaging in hoarding?
And for me it came down largely to try and understand the degree of impairment that was present in the home.
Interviewer: And how do comorbid diagnosis kind of figure into that problem or do they make it harder or easier in terms of really saying that somebody’s behavior is hoarding behavior?
So, things like INAUDIBLE.
Interviewee: I think it makes it harder because you know with the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, not only do all these symptoms have to be present but then you also have to be able to state with some certainty that the behaviors are not the result of some other mental disorder.
And you know if you are looking at something like let’s say clutter in the home there are lots of different mental disorders that can cause that, depression being probably first and foremost among them.
You know if you are looking at difficulty organizing and making decisions a lot things can do that for example attention deficit disorder.
And so, when a person has comorbid psychiatric conditions I think you have this difficulty in which not only trying to separate out whether this behavior is clinical or subclinical you are also trying to determine whether the behavior can be attributed to that other mental disorder.
Interviewer: So that’s kind of the calculus’s.
Is there something else going on?
Do you find that that’s more common than is normal or abnormal?
Is that the more common problem, is which disorder is it and not is this clinical or subclinical?
Interviewee: I’d say those are probably tied.
I think they are both really important and tricky clinical dilemmas.
Interviewer: Okay.
So now kind of continuing to think about making the diagnosis of hoarding disorder, I’d like you to talk through with me some of the DSM 5 criteria?
Interviewee: Sure.