Rebecca: Likewise, I kind of wonder how you judge the intended use of space, for instance if you have a guest room that you prefer to use for storage is that compromising intended use, or if you have a desk and the surface of your desk is covered with stuff as opposed to being open for space, you know some people prefer to use their tables to store things, and so I wonder how you judge the kind of intended use part of that criteria?
Interviewee: Yeah, the way that I do it this is just flying by the seed of my pants is just that it’s probably pretty normal to have a space or two that you dedicate to storage. But there are certain distinctions that one would expect, like that one would be able to cook in a kitchen, or that you would be able to sleep in a bedroom, or that you would be able to walk through just about any room that you have, or that you would be able to sit on living room furniture. And so, when you see those functions being compromised that’s when it becomes a little clear to me that we are talking about hoarding disorder. Yeah if somebody just, if somebody’s house was just fine and they just said you know I just have this guest room that I use for storage, I probably wouldn’t call that hoarding disorder. And similarly, if their house was fine but they said I use my dining room table to store a lot of stuff, that too I might call sloppy but I don’t think its hoarding disorder. 
Rebecca: Another thing to kind of think through on these criteria is kind of related to what is actually going on with hoarding disorder. So sometimes people prefer their spaces to be more cluttered, they prefer to have more items around them and sometimes hoarders…
Interviewee: Yeah. 
Rebecca: Clinicians have reported to us that hoarders say they like a space that is kind of more enclosed, that has more, that makes them feel safe because it has more items and is hoarding disorder about saving the space itself? About creating the space that they want to inhabit or is the space just kind of a byproduct of their need to save? 
Interviewee: I think it’s a byproduct, you know again I think that an awful lot of post talk rationalization that occurs. I mean I don’t doubt that there are some people that prefer more cluttered space but I don’t think that hoarders engage in behaviors because they set out to do that to their homes. 
Rebecca: That makes sense. 
Okay. The final DSM5 criteria I just want to think about reads: This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them, and so the question we had about this one is how do you determine distress and particularly how to determine distress in cases where people have low levels of insight about their own behaviors and their own kind of ability to throw things away. How is this distress kind of assessed by a clinician? 
Interviewee: Its primarily based on the persons self-report, and we might ask if I challenged you to throw away a magazine, how would you feel about that and your trying to get a sense of the whether the person would say that would be awful, I would feel like my arms are being ripped off or something like that.