Interview 012
Rebecca: Okay. Well great I will go ahead and explain what we are doing and give you our little informed consent spiel and answer any questions you have. And then we can go ahead and get started with the interview because I don’t want to take up too much of your time.
The purpose of the project is to kind of get a feeling for the general state of knowledge about hording disorder at this time, so what we are doing is interviewing clinical experts in hording disorder using a snowball sampling methodology. So, we are getting people to refer us to other people who they think are key experts so that’s how we got your name.
Interviewee: Okay
Rebecca: And we are asking them questions just to help us think through some of the critical issues surrounding the diagnosis of hording disorder what constitutes hording disorder. I think that they are interesting questions for clinicians. We have had good feedback so far, in terms of the kind of things we are asking. 
We are interested in exploring questions like insight in hording disorders, so how patients come to understand that they have a disorder.
Interviewee: Sure.
Rebecca: And so, in order to do that we first trying to understand how clinicians come to understand that their patients have a disorder. So, the questions are all centered around how you as the clinician know someone has this disorder, what makes it different from normal behavior, where the dividing line is. The next step of the project is we are going to be interviewing patients to see how they answer very similar questions to see if there are similarities or disjuncts in the ways that patients and physicians think about things. And if that can be useful in helping patients come to treatment earlier and dealing with the problem in sight.
Interviewee: Okay.
Rebecca: So that’s the idea behind our project.
Interviewee: Sounds interesting. 
Rebecca: I don’t know if you have any questions for me right of the bat.
Interviewee: No, I don’t think so.
Rebecca: Okay. Well, so I will give you two sentences about me. I am a graduate student in anthropology actually not in psychology or psychiatry, although I am a M.D. Ph.D. 
So, I kind of got pulled into this with a colleague of mine who is getting his Ph.D. in Dr. Carl Mathews lab, and we started talking about this project. So, we are going to be using mostly qualitative methodology, so we are going to be doing a semi-structured interview. We are also going to be using a technique called free listing, which is an interesting technique where we ask people to kind of generate lists of things of the top of their head. And the idea there is to be able to compare statistically the sorts of things that end up on the lists of different kinds of people. So, we are going to be comparing this lists that clinicians generate with the lists that patients generate to see if there are significant differences in the way that people think about things. So that’s what we are going to be doing today. 
Interviewee: Okay.
Rebecca: Stop me if I am going to fast or if you have any questions.
Interviewee: No, you are fine.