Rebecca: And so, kind of to think through that as kind of a life course of an illness, that’s kind of a really long time to have something like hoarding disorder. Is your sense of it that its worsens with age, is it more that they just accumulate items and it becomes more and more impairing? How does it progress or how does it change over the course of a patient’s life?
Interviewee: Good questions. The short answer is I don’t know. 
The longer answer is we’ve got some guesses, one is I think there is a certain level of this behavior that worsens with age. I think that as you age it becomes for some people I think their brains may age at an accelerated rate and it becomes difficult for them to employ executive functions. I think for some people, and these aren’t mutually exclusive, it takes a long time to build up clutter till it reaches some sort of terminal point. 
But I also think a lot of it is that as you age you have fewer and fewer people to help you keep your behavior in line. So, I suspect that one of the reasons that we tend not to see a whole lot of child clinical cases even though behavior probably starts at childhood is because you have parents that are constantly on you to clean up your room or they’re cleaning it up themselves. And then when you move out of your parents’ house and you get married and you have a spouse who’s on you and helps you to take care of it. But you know I think what you tend to see is that these problems worsen as you have fewer and fewer exterior supports. So, when you no longer have your parents in the house, when you no longer have a spouse in the house, when you no longer have adults, when you no longer have your children in the house I think what we see is a behavior begins to spike following those kinds of absences. So, you have fewer people putting on the brakes. 
Rebecca: Right, so there is maybe a progressive aspect but also a social aspect and as your social life changes over your life course the manifestation of your disorder might worsen. 
Interviewee: I think so, and there’s an environmental aspect, which is just that it takes a long time for the stuff to reach a critical mass. 
Rebecca: That makes sense. For the final kind of part of the interview we are doing, we are almost done so I want to be respectful of your time. 
We are just going to talk about some of the explanations that patients with hoarding disorder have for their behavior and this is a little bit of a difficult set of questions because we are asking you to think about what your patients think or what your patients say? And the purpose of this is when we do our patient interviews to compare clinicians’ ideas about what their patients are thinking to what the patients actually respond. So, these are kind of adapted from the brown assessment of belief scale.