Interviewer: And does that change depending on what sort of problem with insight they have?
For instance, if somebody’s chief providence with overvalued ideation they might be aware there is a deficit but still have a delusion.
Interviewee: Well frankly, in a case like that I’m a little bit different.
I don’t have to convince you that you have a hoarding problem you are already know you have a hoarding problem.
In case of overvalued ideation, I use more cognitive restructuring strategies.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: In which my aim is more to help you critically evaluate what you are thinking and see if it’s realistic and maybe even do some hypothesis testing.
So that you can get a reality check against your thoughts.
And if the person is more defensive that’s when I’m probably going to use, it’s going to be a little bit more of the motivational interviewing kind of procedure where I am going to be non-threatening and non-directive to see if I can get them to start talking about the problem in a relaxed manner.
Interviewer: That makes sense.
And do you see these different kinds of insight as perhaps different points along a progress, do you feel like people start out with anosognosia and move towards defensiveness or overvalued ideation or do you think that that’s not necessarily how it works?
Interviewee: I don’t think that’s necessarily how it works.
I think there are three different constructs.
Arguably you could say that some are worse than other but I don’t that its necessary that a person moves from one to the next.
Interviewer: And when you think about the patients that you have seen come in on their own who have a least some sort of level of insight already.
Do you have any sense of how people gain that insight outside of a clinical setting, is it through interactions with family members or do they come to it on their own somehow?
Interviewee: I think it’s a mixture of both.
I mean certainly we have some hoarding patients whose insight is pretty good and they just realize on their own that this is a problem and they wanted to do something about it.
We have some patients who have discovered it by watching television, they watch hoarders and that was enough that it kind of cued something in their brain that says “wow, maybe my problem isn’t as bad as that but maybe I do kind of have a problem”.
And I think there is another group of people who have to get to that level of awareness through their family members, you know by having family members repeatedly express their concerns to them.
Interviewer: And when you think about the patients you have come in either because they have been motivated by their family or some self-motivated, how long do these patients tend to say their behavior has gone on before they come in for treatment?
Interviewee: Well most of them say they have been engaging in this behavior since adolescents or early adulthood.
And our average patient with hoarding disorder is somewhere around 55 years old, so I think the average patient that we see says they have been hoarding for at least 30-40 years before they come in for treatment with us.