So, the first question is if we were to ask one of your patients “what do you think has caused you to have these behaviors and do they have a psychiatric or underlying biological cause, what is your sense that your patients believe is causing their hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think that my patients would believe there is a psychiatric cause.
I think most of the people now it’s because I’m seeing people that already know that they are hoarders and have agreed to seek treatment.
But I think that some group of hoarders understand that they have a psychiatric illness and that’s the reason they are saving things.
Interviewer: And is your sense that they believe that it’s a biological illness, that there is a biological cause for their hoarding disorder or do they have psychological explanations for it?
Interviewee: I think most would have more psychological than biological explanations.
Interviewer: So they would say “I have this disorder because I had an experience or because I”…
Interviewee: Because I experienced trauma in my life or something like that.
Yeah, I think a lot of them would say that.
Interviewer: Okay.
The next one is: how convinced are you that you need to keep these things or that some bad will come of discarding?
So, do you think that the patients you tend to see are fairly convinced that they need to keep their items or that some bad will come of discarding?
That’s kind of adapted from OCD.
Interviewee: Yeah.
I think that most of them are fairly convinced that they need to save at least some of these items and/or that something bad will happen if they discard the items.
Interviewer: Okay.
So again, this is kind of a broad question but, when you think about your patients with hoarding disorder do you see any kind of potential impact of maybe cultural forces that associate value and self-worth with consumption, material possession, ownership of items?
Do you think that that influences hoarding disorder at all or do you think that’s just kind of a side product or not related?
Interviewee: I think that cultural factors may shape the way that behavior of hoarding disorder manifests.
I don’t think that they are the cause of the hoarding disorder and that’s because I think you see that the prevalence of hoarding looks pretty similar across different cultures.
But I think that cultural factors may influence how those behaviors are expressed.
Interviewer: And what about, again this is kind of perhaps an abstract thing to think about.
Ideas that associate saving behaviors with memory, so needing items as souvenirs or jogs for memory.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: What do you think is the connection between memory and saving behavior in hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well its funny because you know most people with hoarding disorder have intact memory.
So, what I think they have is very low memory confidence, but they tend not to trust their memory.
They tend to worry that they are not going forget things even though, as far as we can tell, their memory is intact.
Interviewer: So, they have anxiety about forgetting?
Interviewee: I think they have anxiety about forgetting and I think, again it depends on whether you believe that those reasons are really the causes of the behavior or they are justification.
I do think people hang on to things because they have sort of warm fuzzy sentimental feel about them when they touch them.
But I’m getting off course.