Interviewee: Yes, can you hear me now?
Interviewer: Yes, I can hear you now, sorry about that.
Interviewee: Okay, that’s weird.
Interviewer: Yeah, I don’t know what that was.
Interviewee: All good?
Interviewer: Yeah good.
So, you oversee the clinic, sorry.
Interviewee: I oversee that hoarding treatment protocol and provide patient treatment for hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, you both see patients clinically and you are involved in research in hoarding disorder.
Is that correct?
Interviewee: I don’t see very many patients clinically.
Mostly I oversee the protocol, I supervise the treatment [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer: I am really sorry, I keep losing you and I am not sure if the issue is on my end or if it’s on your end.
Would you like me to try calling you back?
Hello?
Hello?
Hello?
Hello?
Hello?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Can you hear me okay?
Interviewer: Yeah, it’s very strange you go out completely and then you go back completely.
Are you in a place where that could be from your end?
Or is it from my end?
I can try calling you back if that would be helpful?
Interviewee: I don’t know.
Yeah, I am on a cell phone in a car so that could be part of what’s...
Interviewer: You want me to try giving you a call back?
Interviewee: If it happens again let’s try another connection.
Okay?
Interviewer: Okay, that’s fine.
That’s good.
Interviewee: So why don’t we stay CUTS_OUT difficult connection...
Interviewer: Yep, there it goes.
Interviewee: There he is, do you want to try hanging up and calling me back.
Interviewer; Yeah, I will try calling you back from another number, if that’s okay?
That way if it’s my end we will solve the problem.
Sounds good?
Interviewee: That’s fine.
Alright, I will hang up now.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Okay.
Thanks bye.
End Part 1
Start Part 2
Interviewee: I’m good.
Okay, I can hear you just fine.
Interviewer: Okay, it must have been from my end.
I am so sorry about that.
Interviewee: No, no problem at all.
Interviewer: Okay so, you were telling me that you mostly don’t see patients clinically you mostly oversee the treatment protocol.
What is your educational background?
Interviewee: Yeah.
My vocational background.
Well, I am director of the anxiety disorder center at the institute of living.
I am an adjunct professor of psychiatry at Yale university school of medicine.
Interviewer: Okay.
And how long have you been working with patients with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think I have been dealing with hoarding disorder since probably, maybe 2003/2002, something like that.
Interviewer: Okay.
We are going to move into the part of the interview where we talk about the things that set hoarding disorder apart as a disorder from normal kinds of behaviors.
Interviewee: Okay.
Interviewer: So, for you when you think about hoarding disorder what are some of the most important differences between normal saving behavior such as perhaps collecting and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well I think that probably the main one that distinguishes any pathology from its normative behavioral cousin is the degree of dysfunction that it entails.
So, you know collecting, normative collecting doesn’t hamper a person’s ability to function.
Whereas hoarding very clearly does and it hampers a person’s ability to conduct activities of daily living, it hampers their ability to be safe in their homes.
That’s the primary one, I think the other one too is that separates hoarding from collecting is the degree of enjoyment and activity that’s involved with collecting.