Rebecca: Just before we start, when you think about the DSM5 criteria for hoarding disorder are there particular elements of the criteria that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that perhaps different clinicians may apply differently or are perhaps more reliant on something like clinical judgment. 
Interviewee: I think probably the hardest one for me is that last one of the symptoms are not attributable to another mental disorder. You know in one really common example we see of that is when there is a comorbid attention deficit or activity disorder. Which you know by definition disrupt executive function and difficulty with executive function decision making is really you know one of the major features we’ve seen in hoarding disorder. So, I think that makes it very tricky. 
Rebecca: Okay. So now I am going to go through the DSM5 criteria and read you a couple of key phrases from the criteria, and I’d just like to know more about your thought process as you apply to individual patients. 
So, the first one is: persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value, and so the kind of question we had about your application of this one is: how are you determining value, and how does that the value of the items that are saved play into the diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think it’s very difficult to determine value because it’s so subjective. You know usually I think in cases of hoarding disorder we find it not terribly difficult because what the person is saving is often garbage. And so that makes it easy you know the possessions are not like right on the line between valuable and in-valuable there fairly clear. You know when there is some value to the item that are being saved, I think that it becomes trickier. The way that the criteria is worded doesn’t necessarily say that the person is saving worthless things, even though that’s what we usually think about. It just says they are keeping regardless of their actual values. So, you know a person theoretically could hoard valuable things. I guess in most clinical cases of hoarding disorder we find even if there are valuable things that are mixed in with things that others would probably call junk. 
Rebecca: So, it’s seems like for you the emphasis in this criteria is not so much on the value but that they have the difficulty in discarding or parting. It doesn’t really matter if they are appropriately valuing items, if they are having difficulty discarding them. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: I think so. I have to in my sense of experience, that for most hoarders this need to save is sort of discriminants, you know? 
Like I very rarely, I don’t want to say never, but I very rarely meet somebody who is compelled to save only certain things but not others. You know like when a case of hoarding disorder, like it’s really clear its hoarding, I think what we see is they’re not really making any decisions at all, they are just sort of saving everything. 
Rebecca: So, again maybe that’s not so much that they are inappropriately valuing so much as they are not making distinctions in value. Everything is kind of equally valuable.