Rebecca: So, the anosognosia patients are the ones that are not coming in for treatment, they’re the ones that don’t even know there is something wrong. Whereas people who are defensive… 
Interviewee: Right. That’s the people who says I am not a hoarder. 
Rebecca: Right. Whereas people who are defensive or who have overvalued ideation are at some level aware of the fact that they have a problem but either don’t want to deal with the problem or continue to believe unreasonable things despite the fact that they’re…
Interviewee: Precisely. Definitely. 
Rebecca: In terms of overvalued ideation, if you were to describe what that’s like in hoarding disorders is that like somebody who really deeply knows that they have too much stuff but who deeply believes that whatever they are saving is still valuable. Is that what you mean by that?
Interviewee: Yeah. Right that’s the person that you would, that at an extreme level you would refer to them as delusional.
Rebecca: Right.
Interviewee: So, the person really and truly believes in their heart of hearts that this is a very valuable thing that they’re holding. 
Rebecca: And does that tend to take the form of “delusion” where they truly believe it has monetary value, or aesthetic value, or it’s has emotional value, like what is that delusion like? 
Interviewee: I think it can vary I think probably the one I hear most often is either it has utility or that it has monetary value like, I’m going to sell it.
Rebecca: Okay and what about indifference? Do you feel like there is a role for indifference in thinking about insight or is that something…
Interviewee: Yeah, I think of indifference as being sort of on the anosognosia spectrum. So, like in extreme anosognosia the person has no idea that they have a deficit. In lesser forms of anosognosia they’re aware there is a deficit but they are not terribly concerned about it, I think of that as sort of a lesser form of anosognosia. That reflects the persons level of self-awareness.
Rebecca: That makes sense. 
So, when you think about the patients you have encountered either at treatment or research, and I guess probably thinking most closely about treatment, and you encounter a patient who has very low insight. What is your process for helping that patient to gain insight or to get closer to gaining insight? How do you help patients do that?
Interviewee: It’s different. It’s difficult, I tend to use strategies from motivational interviewing. In which there are a couple things that happen, one is I am often reflecting back what the person is saying so they can hear themselves and sometimes that helps them to hear what they are saying doesn’t make a whole lot of sense. And then I use the strategy of developing discrepancy between the persons goals and desired life and their current behavior. 
Rebecca: So, that’s just kind of to help them to see, to perceive that they have a problem is really what you are getting at?
Interviewee: Right. Right. 
I’m not necessarily trying even to treat their hoarding at this point. What I am trying to do is talk to them about a situation and see if I can get them to generate a little bit of understanding that their behavior is not necessarily in line with what they want to get out of life.