But again, it’s tricky because for a lot of the things that you or I own we might very well feel distressed if we might very well feel distressed if we had to get rid of some of them. But, you know at least when the hoarding case is more clear that level of distress is far more acute then makes sense, then you or I would expect to feel. 
Rebecca: And do you find that, so we are going to get into the next section of the interview that is all about insight. So, kind of to lead into that, do you find that when your patients have what we would call low insight that they deny stress associated with discarding?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Rebecca: That they aren’t even aware of how they would feel if they had to discard?
Interviewee: Well, let me take that back. I don’t know about that.
I think when I see low insight patients I think they don’t think they have a problem with saving. And they think that everything is fine but I think they still exhibit both verbally and sometimes non-verbally a heightened anxiety or anger or sadness response when they have to let go of something. 
Rebecca: Let’s take a step back before we get into this discussion about insight. As I’m sure you know a lot of literatures sort of describe hoarding disorders as having low insight or have problems getting into treatment because of insight. How would you define insight? 
Interviewee: I would define insight according to three different variables. And I think there are probably three separate constructs. 
The first is anosognosia, and anosognosia which mostly is the kind of [inaudible 23:49] insight you see in neurological disorders is where the person fails to recognize that there is a deficit. AND that’s a very common kind of poor insight we see in hoarding, those are the non-treatment seeking hoarders that are often referred through the courts or other branches of social services. 
The second kind of poor insight is called overvalued ideation, and that’s the kind of hoarding insight you might see in OCD or perhaps more commonly in schizophrenia. So, in overvalued ideation the person is aware they have an illness and at the same time they also believe everything they think is right.
The third kind of poor insight, I just refer to as defensiveness, because I think of some of the behaviors we refer to as being low insight are really just a person trying to get you off their back.
Rebecca: So, they may be aware that they have a problem but just not want to deal with it? 
Interviewee: They don’t want to acknowledge it to you because they don’t want to deal with it. 
Rebecca: And do you find that with your patients that any of these are more or less common? I mean which do you see most often? Are they mutually exclusive? 
Interviewee: They are not mutually exclusive. I think the ones that I see the most often are the overvalued ideation and the defensiveness. But there is a reason for that and that is because I think the people with anosognosia are not the ones that come in for treatment, and I am less likely to meet them. Although I suspect there is probably a lot of them out there.