Interviewer: So, you’ve never encountered a case with animal hoarding where you were like not really sure if this really counts as that, there’s a lot of animals…
Interviewee: Well, I mean again recognize that other than for purposes of conversation there’s no usefulness to the language hoarding.
It doesn’t serve anybody other than to be able to talk amongst yourself and say oh yeah we have a hoarding case that we’re dealing with and that’s shorthand jargon to explain what’s going on.
There’s no advantage.
It’s not listed in a cruelty INAUDIBLE where you have something to gain some brownie points or some utility by the label.
If it becomes a cruelty case, you are still going to prosecute it under the cruelty laws which are very specific specifications for failure to comply necessary standards of food, water, shelter, sanitary environment, veterinary care.
But when you’re dealing with the case operationally, you’re gonna just say to your friend or coworker, we have a hoarding case and that captures the whole thing in a nutshell.
Interviewer: So from a law-enforcement perspective it really doesn’t matter if they’re a hoarder or not as long as it’s neglect and it’s cruelty, it’s cruelty.
It doesn’t matter if they’re technically a hoarder or if they’re technically not.
Interviewee: There’s no advantage and in fact there’s a lot of disadvantages, sadly.
Because of the way the law requires it to INAUDIBLE house, what I’ve got to do to prove cruelty is that the conditions are INAUDIBLE.
In order for me to prove the way the case will be charged and the way I would prove it is I would have to take a picture and have an accurate identification of that gray cat, that gray male two-year-old cat at that particular place and time who did not have proper sanitation, shelter, food, water, or veterinary care.
See what I mean?
So I would have to do that for every single cat.
Interviewer: So the fact that there are seventy-two cats doesn’t make it a difference that you have document each separate case.
Interviewee: Technically it does not.
I wish it did.
That would make our lives vastly easier in terms of dealing with the cases, but no. As far as the law goes it is a case-by-case-by-case violation.
Interviewer: So this is a little bit of a, maybe you just don’t know the answer to this question, but I suspect you might have some idea.
What happens to people who are animal hoarders after their animals are taken away from them?
Do they just start accumulating animals again?
Interviewee: The truth of INAUDIBLE, the old adage you know we always said they would have a cat on the way home from court.
Because the compulsion is so strong in most of these cases that unless you incarcerate people, physically prevent them in some way from doing it, this is a deep-seeded addiction type behavior and they’re going to, they need to do it.
It is a very deep-seeded thing and so they are going to acquire more animals most of the time.
INAUDIBLE It’s going to be a local case in a local community.
They’re going to say you are prohibited from owning any animals or owning more than two animals or whatever it is in this town for say two years or three years or five years or whatever it may be.
But that doesn’t stop them from picking up their toys and going to play in another town basically.