Rebecca: No, absolutely. And I wonder if you could take a step back and think through that for me. You know if you were to really think about where you are in your understanding of what causes this. So, for example, some clinicians will talk about hoarding as being a biological impulse whereas some will talk about it as a response to trauma or a coping mechanism. So, it really seems to be a question of whether the justification for saving animals is a real justification or whether it’s kind of a post-hope justification for some underlying biology that has gone wrong. Do you have a sense for…?
Interviewee: I think it’s probably complex and I don’t think this necessarily has to be a one-size-fits-all explanation. We certainly do see cases where people start out with good intentions and trying to do the right thing, whether it’s some kind of rescue or shelter and saving the animals. But then either because of space, if they can’t adopt enough of them out, choose to start becoming more selective and they don’t want to let the animals go, the collection starts to rise, and then at some point they do spin out of control where they’re just overwhelmed and they have far too many and they don’t know how to get out of that. (INAUDIBLE 23:50-24:05) Hard to know, but there’s a lot of self-type of reward I guess is what I’m saying by doing it, both internal and external and those rewards probably differ a little bit by different people. Now some people may know people that are more passive about it, some people tend to be more passive acquirers whereas the lady that lives at the end of the road, dead-end road, and everybody drops off strays there because they know that she’ll take it in. But then you have people who are more actively soliciting animals through bulletin boards or social media now etc and deliberately trying to build their collection. Some of them are not sole actors but they become group actors and they seem to almost have a cult-like following of enablers and different animals. So, there’s many different variations out there. What we see is the common denominator in the end-behavior. I think it’s premature and probably not productive to assume that identical processes always lead to that end-behavior. It’s just the end-behavior that we can recognize so that’s the label we end up using.
Rebecca: That’s a really good point. I wonder if you could talk me through some of the explanations that people give for their behavior when they’re confronted by charges of animal neglect.
Interviewee: There usually isn’t an explanation. Actually, I think you can get it on our website. If not, if you look at the (NAME 25:37) website we have a publication list that I can certainly send you anything you’d like to see. My colleague (NAME 25:43) the sociologist actually did a whole paper analyzing excuses. So, he talked about that, but a lot of times there’s so little insight that you could be standing there, this has happened to me personally, when you literally pass dead animals on the floor and they’re looking around not seeing any problem. So that’s how profound the lack of insight can be. So, it’s some place (INAUDIBLE 26:07) irrelevant but (NAME 26:12) did a whole paper of excuses.