Rebecca: So, let’s just talk through a couple of issues that pertain to object hoarding, but I want to hear you talk them through how you think they pertain specifically to cases of animal hoarding. So, you said that in the past these cases have been called animal collectors. So, for you, what is it that makes a distinction between someone who simply has a lot of animals, or who enjoys having a lot of animals, or who even collects animals if there were such a thing as an object collector, and somebody who is an animal hoarder. How do you make that distinction in your mind?
Interviewee: Well that’s pretty much established in the research and that’s been laid out very clearly in terms of the definition that we used and looking at any of our work (INAUDIBLE 12:35) it is a multi-part sort of thing. Someone who has more than the typical number of animals, somebody who is keeping them under suboptimal or even inhumane conditions, somebody who doesn’t recognize their failure to provide proper care and they also persisted their behavior despite their failures. So, it kind of was a four-part definition.
Rebecca: So, I guess I have a couple of sub-questions and I apologize this is not at all my, clearly I want to look at the literature, but I guess what I’m wondering is how you made calls like more than a typical number of animals. I mean do you ever have trouble because people are, for example living on a piece of land that’s really large and have something like a farm, but then have a lot of animals? Or is it always a really clear–
Interviewee: Well that’s why the (INAUDIBLE 13:33) piece is only one piece of it. You can’t be hoarding animals if you have two dogs. If you got a problem of even neglect going on, but you can’t be talking about hoarding with (INAUDIBLE 13:45) you got to have some large-ish number. But the way you distinguish it from say a farming operation is because you’ve got again these substandard conditions, you’ve got people who are compulsive and desire to keep acquiring and controlling the animals (INAUDIBLE 14:05). There’s really no source of confusion with a farming operation. They’re pretty clear-cut. It doesn’t mean that something that looks like a farm couldn’t be hoarding because there are farm hoarders where again they do it with a large number of agriculture animals. There wouldn’t be any problems in the field I don’t think distinguishing it from using a four-part definition I’ve given, we never would have encountered any gray areas I don’t think, it’s pretty clear cut.