Rebecca: And prior to that, it hadn’t been in any previous editions of the DSM at all.
Interviewee: Oh god no. Well, hoarding disorder. At that point, it was listed hoarding was dealt with under OCD, because of the way it was described earlier. The original sample of people who were hoarding were people who felt presented to OCD clinics, with OCD hoarding disorder. And at that point people didn’t realize that there was OCD hoarding, but that was only a minority of the hoarding behavior.
Rebecca: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Interviewee: So, that’s the short history.
Rebecca: Yeah, tell me about your work developing the research on animal hoarding. Tell me about what your next steps were and how and if you’ve been able to build a body of literature. How do you find animal hoarders? What does your research look like in this topic right now?
Interviewee: Well we’re not doing anything now. Our group worked together collectively for about ten years and then everybody, you know time passes and you know it sort of finished our joint work. People change jobs, one person passed away, that sort of thing. 
Rebecca: So, how many cases did you end up seeing while you were working on this topic?
Interviewee: Well again it depends on what you mean by cases. The hard consortium didn’t actually quote-on-quote seek patients. We, this was an informal research group and we studied it through a variety of different lenses. So, we talked about cases, we shared ideas about (INAUDIBLE 10:29), we shared thoughts about treatment. But everybody was doing their own thing (INAUDIBLE 10:36) information sharing. So, (NAME 10:38) and (NAME 10:39) were studying object hoarders, but then they were bringing their insights about object hoarding to us. We would weigh in, we would talk about how does this seem to fit, does it fit, does it not fit, what are we (INAUDIBLE 10:54) questions. So, everybody had their own sort of angle of researcher thing that they brought to the general discussion. In terms of me personally the way I saw cases, again I was working, well not at that point I wasn’t, but I still do see a lot of people in the animal shelter world doing investigations. So, when they would get a report of a case et cetera, et cetera then often they would bring those cases to our attention and we would either do case reports or talk to the investigators, there was a few times we would go out on active cases, so it would just vary.
Rebecca: So, you kind of would see them in the course of talking to people and your job as a veterinarian.
Interviewee: I would see them as the course of a law enforcement investigation basically.
Rebecca: Okay, so you would be called in at that point.
Interviewee: Yeah.