Rebecca: What would they say?
Interviewee: Well here’s an example in a book that you can get at (INAUDIBLE 19:49) it was written by (NAME 19:52) and (NAME 19:53) she’s a journalist and he’s a sociologist. They looked at the case of (NAME 20:00) dogs and so they ended up spending a lot of time interviewing her and listening to her side of the story so to speak. And she had all kinds of (INAUDIBLE 20:12) things about being in the Navy, studying to be a doctor or a nurse, or a veterinarian, studying law, just a whole series of things that didn’t make a whole lot of sense in her life. She started telling all these tales about trauma, and so there was a trigger warning here. I think the important thing is that she believes it’s true. She claims that when she was young she was serially molested by her grandfather and the dogs were often the only comfort she had afterward, so she would go to her dogs for solace. One time the dog actually, through barking and jumping, interrupted the attack and then the parents got rid of all the dogs. (INAUDIBLE 21:00) And then she recounts a tale of being molested by a farmhand that worked on the farm and he forced her to marry him and then when she was pregnant she, I guess the farmhand left her or something, and then when she was pregnant the mother sent her to the barn to have the baby. After she delivered the baby alone the mother came in and took the baby away and she never saw it again. So, who knows you know? There were lots of stuff in there. But I think what’s relevant is that whether it happened or not she felt the urge to tell that story. Presumably she also believed it because she felt it was important to tell that story. Those kinds of stories are not uncommon, so if you can actually engage people and start talking. I don’t have any frame of knowledge to know how many people of the general population who are now hoarders will also tell the same story. My thought is probably nowhere near as many. I think these stories of terrible trauma are over-represented in animal hoarders, but as they are in many other kinds of (INAUDIBLE 22:15) behavior. It’s just what we don’t know is why do some people if they’re going to accept the premise that trauma is a contributory factor, why do they go in that direction instead of abusing drugs, alcohol, or all the other things people do when they’re trying to cope.