Interviewer: Yeah, that is very interesting.
So, part of it is this identity of being a person who is a caregiver so identifying oneself as kind of like a good person because they’re taking care of so many dogs and cats, it’s a personal identity.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: So I’m wondering, do people who are hoarding animals also hoard objects?
Do you find that when you go into the home it’s cluttered and their car is full of stuff and also they have seventy-two cats?
Interviewee: Well again, it depends on how one defines the term hoarding because there’s a difference between just the accumulation of stuff in my mind versus, because they just didn’t throw it out like there’s piles of trash in the kitchen and old food, unsanitary conditions, very crowded, but they never deliberately said “Oh, I want to collect INAUDIBLE.”
It’s just a INAUDIBLE of life they haven’t disposed of.
What was that question about again?
I sort of lost track.
Interviewer: Do people who hoard animals also hoard objects?
Interviewee: Yes, so you will see certainly when you come into some of these places and again there’s a range of things, so sometimes yes, sometimes no. Sometimes what you see is tons and tons of old pet food, bags of dog food, bags of cat food, empty cans of cat food, empty cans of dog food, you know litter bags, etc. So some of it is the INAUDIBLE of having animals and I don’t know that they’re hoarding that, they just don’t throw it away and that’s just how their lives are organized.
They’re hoarding the animals, but the other stuff is just sort of a byproduct of that.
But then we have also seen cases where along with the animals they do have other stuff.
Like the very first case I was telling you, they had a lot of religious iconography and a lot of Christmas decorations.
Interviewer: Interesting.
Interviewee: There was another case where we walked into the “shelter” and there was stall after stall after stall filled with chandeliers.
Interviewer: Interesting.
Interviewee: So, yeah you see both.
You walk into some places and you see stuff that’s just the INAUDIBLE of animals and you walk into other places and you see other stuff there, you know coo-coo clocks, you know whatever it might be and it’s like wow how do you meld these two things together?
And then there’s another case where we walked in and it was literally almost an empty house with various furniture and some cats.
Interviewer: So it doesn’t tend to be like you know when you talk about object hoarders, like just a jumble of indiscriminate objects?
It sounds like with animal hoarders a lot of times they have collections.
Interviewee: Well, it can be all of the above is all I’m saying.
I don’t know if you can characterize it as one or the other.
Some of it is accidental, what I call accidental hoarding, because they just haven’t thrown anything out.
They feed the cat, they empty the cat food can, they throw it over their shoulder.
Is that hoarding?
I mean it looks like hoarding, but is that the same thing as some of the other objects.
I don’t know the answer to that question.
It’s qualitatively different than walking in and thinking, “Wow, where did you get all of these chandeliers?” They had to do some work to get the chandeliers, that took some real effort to fill all sorts of chandeliers.