Interviewer: Sorry to interrupt, what was going on in the house?
Interviewee: It was just filled with cats, the water and electricity were turned off, every room was stacked to the [INAUDIBLE] with cat cages, it was filthy, there was clutter everywhere, the cat cages some of them had groceries in them, sometimes with the cats, sometimes [INAUDIBLE].
It was an unlivable environment.
The ladies allegedly were sleeping in a tent in the front yard while they had this hoard of cats inside.
So, they were taken away finally by the police and hospitalized for observation or whatever, but that’s where the whole thing broke down and then at that point we were left with 72 cats and 13 dogs and didn’t know what to do.
Nobody would talk to us, none of the clinicians would address it, they didn’t wanna deal with the animal fees and it was a very frustrating and difficult situation all the way around.
So, fast forward another ten years when I was a faculty member I said well this is the time to start thinking about looking into this again and thinking about what the hell went on there.
It can’t be the only case.
This again is just an element of serendipity because people used to just call them animal collectors which seems like very poor terminology to me because they really weren’t [INAUDIBLE] coin collectors, you know whatever.
This was clearly not a benign hobby, this was pathological any way one looked at it from human wellness standpoint or from the animal standpoint.
I started [INAUDIBLE] and trying to see if I could find a comparable thing in literature and couldn’t.
But then my mentor at [NAME] sort of got intrigued by this and he started doing some poking around and he found the literature on hoarding which was very comparable kind of behavior, it seemed to capture the pathology.
In terms of serendipity, two of the top people in the country at that point who were really pioneering this work were [NAME] and [NAME] and they’re both local in Massachusetts.
So I sent them copies and snippets of information and said, “You know I’ve got a video tape here of what this behavior looks like.
I’ve never seen it described anywhere, would you guys be interested and coming and taking a look at it?” And they did.
So that’s where it all began basically.
We started to informally collaborate and share ideas and we started looking at this problem through the lens of human-object hoarding because that was the most pertinent way, the most pertinent out there in literature that seemed comparable as a window to explore it.
So, we called it hoarding because it seems to have the same features, many of the same features, many of the same behaviors, sometimes you have both objects and animals hoarded as well, so lots of similarities certainly.
It’s a fair question as to whether or not this is really the same behavior or a different behavior.
I really don’t fully understand it, but up to this point at least it has been a useful thing, it’s been a useful lens to look at it.
I think we’ve seen more similarities than differences.
But, until the DSM came out it really wasn’t something that anybody really thought of as being connected with object hoarding and because DSM was very equivocal in mentioning it.
They didn’t mention it because we were asked to submit some position papers saying why it should be included and their mention of it, I think, was a testament to the amount of work that we have done, but it certainly is not by any means a sufficient body of research.
So, they kind of left it somewhat equivocal about where it sits.
They had it listed as a specifier possibly, but they left it open and I think that was fair in the state of the research to leave it open as an unanswered question.