Interviewee: Who do encounter this primarily not as psychiatrists or psychologists because by the very nature of these, the people that… It’s a very small subset of hoarders that actually seek out care.
And so, when the original literature on hoarding was written, before they were even calling hoarding a thing, a disorder certainly, it was people that were self selected going to OCD hoarding clinics.
So, that’s how it got sort of linked in to OCD, because that’s who was seeking treatment.
And it took a long time to sort of shed that because that’s where all of the original work was done and it made sense because that’s where it first appeared.
As everybody has learned and as you certainly have pointed out, that’s just one small piece of the puzzle and it’s probably not the predominant piece of the puzzle.
So, I think this idea of exploring the range of possibilities out there is very anthropological.
(INAUDIBLE, )
Interviewer: Yeah, so the original purpose of this project was to try to do two things.
One was to try to capture the way that clinical knowledge on this topic has (INAUDIBLE, ) and changed and how different kinds of providers think about this disorder differently.
Especially, because it’s just now, as you pointed out, been brought out from under the OCD umbrella.
Also to solve the problem that you brought up which is not necessarily solved, but to speak to the problem that you brought up which is most people with this disorder are not like “Oh my gosh, I have a huge problem and I have to go sort this out with a doctor.”
Quite the contrary, they’re very resistant in many cases to seeing their behavior as problematic and very resistant to getting treatment.
So, they’re thinking about their behavior in such a different way than their clinicians that they’re coming to such different conclusions.
I think that for that reason the people who, we’ll get into the course of the interview, but a lot of times clinicians kind of hit a wall when you ask them about people who have low insight into their disorder because they’ve never encountered any patients who have low insight into their disorder, because if they’re seeing a psychiatrist or psychologist they already have insight into their disorder to some extent.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Self-fulfilling prophecy