Interviewer: And there does seem to be a parallel between seeking out animals to collect and seeking out chandeliers as opposed to with object hoarding where it’s just kind of like you said an accumulation of not throwing stuff out.
Interviewee: Even with object hoarding though I mean there are people that do the trash pickup every day.
The night before trash day, they’re out there with their car driving around the neighborhood looking for fun.
So even though it looks like a jumble, it’s a deliberate jumble.
As opposed to somebody saying, “Oh, I’m going to go out on Saturday night and just find coo-coo clocks.”
Maybe you’ll see that to some degree too, but that’s bordering more on collecting, I think, than hoarding because it’s more of a focused good and maybe you don’t have the filth and other kinds of things.
A lot of this goes back again to the point we talked about where you have this final common pathway, the endpoint, the behavior that you see and it’s a real open question of how much can we try to prescribe general help previous generalities to that endpoint.
You have to be real careful with that.
You just don’t know.
Interviewer: So, just because we’re seeing people with a lot of animals doesn’t mean those people are necessarily similar in the reasons they’ve acquired those animals or how they ended up becoming people who acquire a lot of animals.
Interviewee: Yeah, we don’t know.
I think maybe that’s the case, but I think it’s just way too early to tell because we need interviews, we need good case histories, and we’ve got snippets of stuff that hang together but that’s a far cry from claiming eureka.
Interviewer: That’s kind of the state of knowledge about object hoarding as well was kind of in that same place where there are a lot of really big unanswered questions.
I think a lot of the reason for those questions remaining unanswered is how difficult it is to find–
Interviewee: Bingo!
Interviewer: –people to talk to who will talk to you who self-identify.
So, here’s another question for you.
How do you feel that popular media conceptions of animal hoarding, like for example thinking of people as “crazy cat ladies,” how does that play into the phenomena of animal hoarding as it is actually kind of going on?
So do people self-identify as crazy cat ladies or do they say “I’m not a crazy cat lady because…”
Interviewee: Well, probably not the ones who truly are hoarders.
They have people with cat t-shirts and they have the cat clothing and all of the other stuff and they do it kind of tongue-in-cheek.
Even though they do care for a lot of cats and stuff, but those are people that are doing it precisely because they have insight, see what I mean?
Because you need the insight to play the joke at yourself.
The folks that we’re seeing they don’t have the insight to do that.
But I think for the ones that do where there is that border-line area I mean yeah the stereotypes certainly don’t help.
Nobody wants to be–they have enough insight to know that that’s a bad label and they’ll even sometimes have to be pushed back and say “I’m a hoarder.”
So they’ve heard of the term by now.
I had a woman who was well known in the community once come to one of my lectures INAUDIBLE.