Interviewer: That’s very fascinating especially because a lot of the conversation that I’ve had with people about material hoarding, the clinicians will talk about as a problem of being able to distinguish between things that are valuable and things that are not valuable.
So, they’ll keep everything indiscriminately because they can’t make that, they don’t have the ability to say “Okay, I don’t need to save this.”
But it sounds like with animal hoarding there’s a lot more seeking out, so that maybe is a question I should ask you.
Interviewee: Well, I think it’s possible that situations are not entirely terrible, because with animals it’s a very different thing to care for a dog than to care for a cat.
For example, dogs have to go outside.
If you don’t live somewhere where the dogs can, and you may have generated a point where the dogs poop all over the house.
At some point if someone’s going to say “Gee, I’m going to take care of this kind of animal,” they have to be in a living situation that sort of INAUDIBLE something to that.
So, then it sort of INAUDIBLE hard to take a cat to a park.
You can fill it with cats pretty easy, dogs a little bit harder, but farm animals are much harder.
On the flip side, if you have a farm INAUDIBLE running around just because there’s no barriers to entry.
So, with certain living situations there are barriers to acquire a certain kind of animal.
Interviewer: So, do you feel like that’s how people make the decision?
They just acquire whatever they can and sometimes their limited in their acquisition?
Interviewee: I don’t know if anybody actually knows, but I think my own personal opinion is people have an affiliation just like they do with pets.
Some people are dog people, some people are cat people, some people are both and I don’t know if anybody really understands that’s a pretty innate kind of thing, you know who you fall in love with and that’s really what it’s all about.
Interviewer: So it’s that kind of a question, it might just be what people prefer.
That is very interesting.
So, do you feel like, again this is a question that has come up for object hoarders, so some people see object hoarding as having negative associations with getting rid of things, so they feel bad when they throw things out.
Whereas for other people it has more of a positive acquisition, you feel good when you get something.
What is your sense of this with animal hoarding?
Is it more of an inability to discard?
Interviewee: I think both.
But I don’t think discard and I think that’s one place where the comparison falls apart.
If you’re truly going to think of discard as when you discard something it’s sort of worthless trash and I don’t think any of the people feel that their animals are “worthless trash.”
So, if you want to say that it’s hard for them to put them in new homes, absolutely true, but I don’t think the parallel with object hoarding when you start using language like discard is appropriate.
Interviewer: That’s interesting.
Interviewee: I mean it’s also a control issue too where if you’re a caregiver and your whole sort of INAUDIBLE is centered around being perceived as a caregiver and providing care, then you can’t provide care unless you have something that needs it.