Interviewer: Right, that she’s listening to you describe her and she’s not seeing it.
Interviewee: And she came up and she chatted with me and I didn’t know who she was until after the fact somebody came up to me, a law enforcement agent came up and said, “I don’t know if you know this or not, but that was so-and-so and you know this is who she is” and I was like “Wow, I never would’ve known it.”
Interviewer: What do these people’s kind of place in society like do they tend to have family, do they tend to be employed, do they tend to otherwise have normal lives?
Again, I know this is a generalization I’m asking for.
Interviewee: Well, the initial work we did and I think it has held up that they [INAUDIBLE].
They tend to be older, living alone, and just socio-economically marginalised.
But then you can flip that around and find an example and here’s a person who comes from a wealthy family and you see some that are married with kids.
But that’s the exception, not the rule.
The rule tends to be that these are people who are living relatively solitary kind of hard to [INAUDIBLE] lives.
Now the flip side is, if you Google it, you will see which is a very big case up in New Hampshire or Maine, one of the two I can’t remember which now, and there was a very wealthy woman who was hoarding great danes.
Interviewer: Wow.
Interviewee: And she’s been in litigation now with the [NAME] and the local community and she’s got the means to be a very pretentious [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer: That is so interesting.
Interviewee: There’s somebody who sort of, she doesn’t challenge the [INAUDIBLE] type, but she challenges a few of the others.
Interviewer: Right and then there’s that kind of correlation-causation problem where it’s like are they older and living alone and relatively impoverished because they are animal hoarders because those are they people who are able to become animal hoarders it makes them impoverished, it makes them live alone?
Interviewee: That’s a very good point, [NAME].
I think we don’t know that either.
We don’t have the longitudinal information.
It’s certainly not a path to wealth and happiness.
No one would make a recommendation [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer: Dang, I’ll have to cross that off my life plan: animal hoarding.
Well this is kind of my last question and then I’d like to talk to you about next steps because this is extremely fascinating and I’m so glad that we had this conversation.
So, what do you think about the relationship between this phenomena and other potential psychiatric or psychological problems, like we talked about trauma.
But do people tend to be depressed?
Do you see this as a behavior of a depressed person who can’t really control their life and is perhaps trying to cope with depression?
Interviewee: I wouldn’t be qualified to make, I’m certainly not qualified by myself to make that judgement and we really don’t have the data because nobody has done clinical diagnostics on these samples.