Interviewer: What’s your sense for how common this is?
Or even just, not to ask you to overgeneralize, I recognize that you kind of see this in a particular space, but are there particular kinds of people who end up becoming animal hoarders?
Is it a problem of rural or urban or poverty or women or men?
Interviewee: Everywhere, it is everywhere.
It is more women than men, for sure, and then they relate to the trauma issue so much of it is sexual and most victims of sexual trauma are women, not exclusively, but most.
So that could be one explanation for the gender imbalance, but beyond the gender imbalance it just crosses everything, it crosses all demographics and socioeconomic.
You have rich people, you have poor people, you have highly educated people, you have relatively uneducated people, you got colored people.
It’s a question of manifestation.
You know, wealthy people can hide it a little easier.
There have been cases where people have filled up one house with cats and when that one filled up they went and bought another house.
Your run of the mill hoarder is not going to have the resources to do that.
Beyond the gender imbalance, it crosses, I wouldn’t be able to generalize at all.
It just could be anyone, anywhere.
Interviewer: There definitely isn’t the data to make generalizations at this point, I understand that.
Again, just thinking from your experience, do people tend to like one type of animal over another.
So they’ll exclusively take cats, or a particular kind of cat?
Interviewee: Absolutely.
Interviewer: Or does it tend to be like difficulty saying no to any animal?
Interviewee: No, no, no. I mean I’m not going to say it’s a [INAUDIBLE] rule, but it certainly preponderates where people do one or the other.
Now, the first case I saw that I told you about that was maybe a little bit of [INAUDIBLE].
The lady had thirteen dogs and seventy-two cats.
Most of the time I would say there’s a predominant animal and there may be some other ancillary animals that are part of the piece.
But it does seem like one type or one class of animal maybe they’re a farm animal, cattle or goats, but there’s especially when we find a domestic farm, it tends to be one or the other most of the time, at least predominantly if not exclusively.
Interviewer: And do people tend to once they have chosen what animal it is that they’re acquiring, do they tend to distinguish within that?
Like they’re looking for a particular kind of dog that they want to acquire or a particular breed?
Interviewee: There are people who again and we didn’t really investigate them [INAUDIBLE] but there was a subset that we started to talk about with a disorder was somebody that was at one point a professional dog breeder and a particular breed they were focusing on may be the type of the dog they showed and somewhere along the line it degenerated and they ended up being a hoarder with that breed.