Interviewer: It sounds like part of what you said also is that people with collections often seek to display their items whereas individuals with hoarding disorder more often perhaps seek to hide the extent of their behavior.
Do you feel like that is a product of the kind of excess and the lack of organization or do you feel like that is a separate factor?
So, are they ashamed of their items?
Interviewee: I think there’s a great deal of shame amongst people with hoarding who do have insight into their condition.
So, they’re hiding often because they’re embarrassed and ashamed and secondly because they’re afraid that they might get into trouble.
They don’t want city attorney’s office or fire department or police to see it, or landlord to see it, because they’re worried they might get evicted or get fined because those things in fact do happen.
Often times they do get evicted and they do get fined and they do get notices when they have to clear out stuff because there’s a health hazard or something.
So the impact of the clutter on their lives is completely different than what would happen with somebody collecting stamps or records or artwork.
Interviewer: Do you feel like that shame or that, maybe shame is too strong, but that kind of reluctance to show people their items is a part of insight.
That part of them realizes the behavior is problematic and that’s why they kind of hide it away or is it something else?
Interviewee: No, I think that’s a big part of it.
I think those who have insight into the problem usually are quite ashamed of it and most of the time they have never before until probably just recently ever thought of the problem as a psychiatric disorder.
Most of the time what they’ve been hearing for decades is that they’re lazy, they’re just not doing what they’re supposed to do, and it’s a moral failing, and people have been ragging on them “Why can’t you just clean up, you’re causing this problem,” without realizing that it in fact has its substrates and abnormal brain functioning and it’s just as much a psychiatric disorder as schizophrenia or OCD.
But prior to the DSM-5 it was never formally recognized as a disorder and still most people, if you interview most people out there in the community, they won’t necessarily know that it’s a psychiatric disorder unless they studied it in some way.
Even the TV programs don’t necessarily make that point.
This is one of the reasons that we stopped working with some of those shows, Hoarders and Buried Alive.
We tried to get give them the information so they could spread more public awareness of the fact that it’s a disorder and the need for treatment rather than just sort of having somebody come in and clearing out your stuff, and they didn’t want to do it.
The producers were not interested in that and so for that reason there still is a tremendous stigma and a tremendous lack of awareness of what this is really all about.