Interviewer: So, we talked earlier in the interview and generated a list of explanations and reasons that individuals with hoarding disorder give for their saving behavior and kind of zeroed in on that emotional attachment to items as kind of a key component of what constitutes a disorder.
I’m wondering if you feel in dealing with patients and doing research on this that these justifications that people give are themselves the root of the disorder or are these kind of post hoc rationalizations for some kind of underlying biological need or that people save the item first and them come up with the “oh maybe I’ll use it someday” or if the “maybe I’ll use it someday” is really the key.
So is it more of a cognitive driven or more of a, I don’t know, I guess my question is breaking down so I’ll let you answer it.
Interviewee: I think different patients do have different motivations or different combinations.
Sometimes I’ll ask people, “How much of this stuff is stuff that you really hung on to because you thought you needed some day or might needed someday or might be useful or valuable and how much of it was for more for sentimental reason or memorabilia?” and I would say most people have some of each.
There’s a few who only have one or only have another, but most people have some of each.
Sometimes the stuff is all jumbled together so they can’t even really piece it apart.
I don’t think that those attachments and those perceptions or cognitions about that either create distress or anxiety about not sure that I might need it or not.
I think those are a root, I don’t think that they are post hoc things.
I think again because they are in fact all on a continuum with what we consider normal saving.
All of us save some stuff that’s memorabilia and almost all of us will save some things, or the things that we do save are things that we usually think we’re going to need.
I think what’s happening in hoarding disorder is that those perceptions and beliefs and then the emotions that come with those perceptions and belief are magnified and they’re spread over lots and lots and lots of items rather than just a few.
So if you ask people, “what receipts do you save?” and somebody might say, “I only save the receipts from the last one year because I might need them for taxes.
Once the year goes by and I’ve done my taxes I toss those out and we’ll save the next year.”
Whereas a person with hoarding disorder might say, “Well I don’t know.
Maybe I might need all of them.
So I’ve saved all of the receipts going back to twenty years because I’m not sure.
It’s too much anxiety to make that decision to throw away and so I just avoid it.”
So it’s the intensity of the emotion attached to those perceptions.
It’s that it becomes pathological so it applies to a whole bunch of different items where most other people would say, “No that’s ridiculous.
Of course you can’t save or there’s no way you logically are going to be able to use those broken electrical cords from a broken lamp.”
But the feeling is there and that part of it is the part that I think is similar to the process that you see in OCD and that’s the part of it that I think qualifies hoarding disorder as sort of an OCD-related disorder.
That is the aspect of the phenomenology that I think is closest to OCD whereas other parts aren’t necessarily.
But I think those feelings and emotions and the anxiety that goes along with the ability to decide or the fear that you might lose something that you might need someday, or that issue about waste that [NAME] described about having, lots of people feeling like I would like these items to be used and I don’t want to feel like things should go to waste, but he wouldn’t necessarily have such an intense feeling of that attached to so many different objects that were lots of things you couldn’t throw away.
So the difference is in degree, the intensity of the emotions and beliefs, are they kind of distorted and applied to lots of different things as opposed to just a few things for most of us.