Rebecca: Okay, so I’m going to be doing a little bit of mirroring in this interview, so as I do that please correct me if I say something back to you that doesn’t sound right. So it sounds like there’s two main categories of distinction between hoarding disorder and collecting behavior. The first one being about the reasons and also it sounds perhaps like there are distinctions in terms of what exactly is saved. So, a collection is not saved because of some future use for it and also it sounds like a collection is saved like it’s a discrete set or type of item whereas someone with hoarding disorder will not save something that is a– I guess that’s a question. Could you have hoarding disorder and have a home full of bottle caps exclusively or bottle caps and coo-coo clocks and I don’t know what other things people collect, clown dolls I guess. Can you hoard in that way or is that a distinguishing feature?
Interviewee: I mean I think sometimes there are. I’ve encountered people with hoarding disorder who have, as part of stuff they’ve saved, some collectibles. And maybe they’ve had excess acquisition of particular kinds of collectibles. It’s just that it usually goes far, far beyond that. So, it’s not that it can’t include collectibles it’s just that it almost always includes way more than that. So you see lots of different objects and types of things saved and the types of things saved are usually most of the time the same sorts of things that everybody saves just to a much greater degree. So, papers, magazines, storage supplies, old clothes that don’t fit anymore, and all kinds of other things, whereas again collections are more discreetly focused on particular areas of interest.
Rebecca: Okay, so it sounds like it’s not about the type of item or even that there is a type so much as that access of different types that they might have collectibles and might have a collection in the midst of many, many other things.
Interviewee: Yeah and the motivation. Are you saving it because of anxiety and emotional distress because you feel like, “Oh I might need it someday, don’t touch it” or is it because of desire to have this particular type of collection that you can display and be proud of. There’s a big difference of the emotional reaction and approach to and what happens with discarding and a big difference with the motivations.
Rebecca: It sounds like from what you said there’s also a big difference in how the collection is organized versus how someone with hoarding disorder has their items. Do you feel like that’s a distinguishing factor?
Interviewee: Yeah, because usually disorganization tends to be a prominent part of the problem in most patients with hoarding disorder and you don’t necessarily see that with people who are just collecting something.