Rebecca: Okay, so the first thing I’d like to talk through with you is the diagnostic criteria for hoarding disorder. So just to start the discussion I’d like you to give me an overview of what you think the most important differences, the most salient differences, between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting, and hoarding disorder are.
Interviewee: Yeah, okay, so and then there’s some literature and (INAUDIBLE, 15:41) and colleagues on that and the differential. So, differences between collecting behavior and hoarding disorder would be that collecting behavior is usually focused just on items being collected and so it’s narrow and specific. It does not include saving or voiding discarding things because you think that they might be needed in the future or that you could give them to someone that they might be useful someday or that something bad would happen if you no longer had that item. With collecting, it’s pretty clear that people have a clear-cut reason for saving those particular items and its because they are part of their collection, they like that particular set of items. They’re not thinking that they’re saving stuff because they might need it for taxes someday or because that they might need it around the house or if its broken they might be able to fix it and then use it for a craft project or something like that. So the reasons for saving are going to be different. Number two, collections usually do not produce the same level of clutter. People store their collections, they display their collections, they’re often proud of their collections, whereas a person with hoarding disorder often is quite ashamed and doesn’t want anybody to see what’s piled up in their home. So, it frequently at least with the patients who have insight it’s the clutter and then the fact that they save so many things is actually causing distress whereas collections clearly don’t cause distress for that person. Sometimes someone else living in the home may feel like the collection is taking up too much space so that may be a similarity, but rarely it gets to the point of hoarding. I think those are probably the main differences. The practice of it ends up being pretty easy to distinguish between the two.