Interviewer: Okay. So, in thinking about some of the things that we’ve been talking about up until now, so we mentioned that individuals with hoarding disorder sometimes are, for example, more socially isolated.
The literature describes people as often being more impoverished, often being older, and I’m wondering if you think that those are real characteristics of individuals with hoarding, like people with hoarding disorder are actually more likely to be elderly or if those are just the people that are picked up because of the things that we’re talking about.
So, I guess another way of asking this question is, is hoarding disorder more common in the elderly?
Is it progressive over the lifespan?
Or is it just that elderly people tend to be more socially isolated, tend to have smaller homes, and that’s why we see their hoarding symptoms?
Does that make sense as a question?
Interviewee: Yes, and that’s an important question that a bunch of people have tried to answer.
I think it’s actually a combination of all of those things.
(NAME, ), I don’t know if you’ve already spoken with her, but she’s one of my colleagues here in (NAME, ) and she has done a couple studies that have looked into this.
So while the onset and maybe three or four different epidemiological type studies and as well as patient interview studies that looked at age of onset and age of onset usually is around age twelve or thirteen of health symptoms.
I think it does seem progressive and I think one of (NAME, ) group of grad students’ recent study showed that when they looked at decade by decade, prevalence increased, and I think that was partly because severity worsens over time especially as clutter builds up and then it creates its own problems.
But probably also because social isolation increases, ability to clean and take care of an environment increase over time, and then other health and neurological hits occur that may exacerbate memory impairments, executive functioning problems, vascular, whatever else.
So I think there’s a bunch of reasons why, yes, I think the prevalence does appear to increase over time and the severity increases over time.
Perhaps people who have subclinical problems earlier now after all these things occur and they’re seventy now they’ve got fully clinical level of hoarding disorder.