Interviewer: The last thing I’d like to ask you about is that there are kind of these, I don’t know if they’re folk-knowledge about hoarding disorder or intuitions that some people have, that hoarding disorder is related to consumption and overconsumption and perhaps a cultural move towards overconsumption and having storage units and having so much stuff.
I’m wondering if you feel like that is valid at all?
If there is anything to that idea?
Interviewee: I would say I don’t think so.
I think those issues certainly play a role in how it manifests.
So the fact that more and more people live in isolation in our country as compared to Europe or compared to the United States from fifty-years-ago when there were more like multi-individual families rather than a whole bunch of people in their fifties living alone because they’re divorced and there’s nobody around.
So social isolation has increased in our culture and our country and that plays a role.
But I think hoarding symptoms have been identified all across the world including people who are very poor or are not in consumer-based societies and that’s why I think the core features that drive the disorder are present regardless of ethnicity and culture, but the way it gets manifested, sure.
Like you mentioned, the size of peoples’ homes, we live in these giant homes now, so there’s lots of space and external storage units are a thing.
They’ve increased dramatically.
I read some news story about that industry and they’re making millions and millions of dollars because so many more people in the United States, all across the country, are wanting and using external storage units.
So they’re popping up all over the place.
So yeah that's a cultural thing that certainly effects how this manifests, but I think that those are the things on the outside.
Those are the things that influence the way that the disorder takes shape and the way that different influences are exacerbated or promoted, but I don’t think that’s the source at all.
Interviewer: And kind of the second thing that people say sometimes about hoarding disorder is that it’s related to early experiences of scarcity or somebody who’s experienced poverty and therefore reacts to it by having so much stuff and again is there anything to that idea in your experience.
Interviewee: No, there isn’t.
That actually has been something that [NAME] did do a paper on that and maybe a few other groups have taken a look at that too.
It does not appear to be correlated with early life deprivation or people used to talk about it’s only going to be in the Depression Era of people, the greatest generation that went through the Depression because they were povorous and that’s not true either.
If you look at different cohorts, birth cohorts, it’s about the same.
It can be seen in wealthy people and in poor people, people who grew up wealthy, people who grew up poor, so I think that one is getting refuted.