Rebecca: So it sounds like, first of all it sounds like, it’s pretty rare for you to find anybody who is on the borderline between normal saving behavior and hoarding and that really the distinction that you struggle to make when you do struggle to make a distinction is between hoarding and other potential problems. I wonder if you could talk me through the process of making that distinction when it’s tough. How do you decide if a diagnosis of hoarding or a diagnosis of OCD, for example, is a primary diagnosis?
Interviewee: So I think that probably the one thing that’s most crucial is reason for saving. So like when we talked about motivation for saving before. So with the patients, and this is a pretty small number from the studies and in my experience too, patients who actually have clutter in their home but it’s really secondary to OCD, it’s very easy to figure that out. You ask them, “Why do you have these bags of garbage sitting in your living room?” and they say, “Because I’m afraid if I throw them out, they’re contaminated, and the garbage man that picks them up is going to catch a disease or something, so I don’t want to throw them out because of that” or they might say there might be some of their valuable thing inside there that they have to check through one more time before they throw them out. But usually it’s pretty easy to figure out the reason for saving is because of some other typical obsessional concern that’s much more consistent with OCD as opposed to the typical things we see with hoarding disorder. They might need it someday, what if I need it someday and I don’t have it, it’s valuable, I paid good money for it, I’m saving it up to give as a gift to someone, it’s memorabilia, it’s stuff from when my kids were in grade school and they drew me a picture and now my kid is thirty-years-old, but I can’t bear to part with that picture they drew in grade school. So the reasons for saving are completely different as compared to OCD. As I said with depression and ADHD, even though yes they’re also highly comorbid with hoarding disorder, but I do see occasional patients where it clearly seems like the clutter is almost entirely secondary to the ADHD or depression. Prior to the onset of the depressive episode, let’s say they never really had problems with clutter. Maybe they had mild subclinical difficulty discarding, but it was never really a problem until they had that physical disability or major depression or something like that. And again, usually in those cases there isn’t that strong drive to save it’s just more difficulty taking care of things and having the mental and physical energy needed to clean up. And with the ADHD, same thing, the reason for saving, usually the person doesn’t want to have that clutter, they just haven’t gotten around or are unable to organize their time to be able to take care of their environment and put everything away.