Interviewer: Well, that brings us really nicely into the next part of the interview where I’d like to ask you a little bit about your thoughts on insight.
So how do you define insight?
Interviewee: Well, I think insight is multi-dimensional.
You know, that’s why there’s that scale the BABS, Brown Assessment of Beliefs Scale, that looks at a number of different aspects of insight because it’s not just one thing.
It’s insight into the specific nature of your thoughts and predictions and beliefs, maybe in this particular case about the items and do you actually need to keep them or not, and there’s insight into whether you have a disorder or not, there’s insight into whether you understand that your behavior would be considered strange or weird or pathological by other people even if you don’t think so.
There’s a little bit of different (INAUDIBLE, ).
Do you think it’s psychological problem or do you think it’s caused by something else?
So there’s different dimensions there.
I think you actually have to sit down and ask those questions and really do a more careful assessment of insight in people with hoarding disorder and it’s difficult.
I personally found it difficult.
I tried to use that scale, the BABS, in people with hoarding disorder and it was really hard because it wouldn’t identify any specific belief.
Everything was a might.
“Well, I might need it someday.”
“Well, do you believe you will need it someday?” “I don’t know, I might.”
Well yes, and so you couldn’t pin them down and say yes I believe it or no I don’t believe it in a way that you could say, “Is it really contaminated?
Are you really going to get sick if you don’t wash your hands?
Do you really believe that your face is distorted and ugly?” And we tried it a number of times and it was really difficult, so we kind of do it non-specifically and I’ve developed, we’ve developed, some other sorts of questions that get at the nature and insight of hoarding and put them in our hoarding severity scale.
(INAUDIBLE, ) because we don’t know how valid it will end up being.
But I ask all of those things.
I ask, “do you think you have a problem?
Do you think you have a psychological disorder or not?
Do you think that you really do need to keep all of this stuff?” I’ll ask them, “what percentage of all of the clutter in your home do you really think that you need?” and then even then you get a wishy-washy answer sometimes.
You’ll say well do I need or do I want?
I may want a lot of it, but I realize I truly only need some of them.
But we don’t always just keep what we need, sometimes we keep what we want and what if I want a lot.
So it can be very difficult to pin down exactly how much insight they have and how much they don’t have and a lot of people are in between.
But with some level of insight impairment and maybe a little overvalued ideation and what I’ve found is that that often changes with psycho-education and really discussing it and getting into a discussion about what’s driving it and having them start to do cognitive restructuring about what would happen if you didn’t have this whole pile of old newspapers from twenty-years ago.
Would it really actually be a problem or would it just be something anxiety provoking or understand you would feel angry because there’s a loss, but would it actually impact your life?
Once you start doing that you start actually affecting their insight and their cognitions because you’re challenging stuff, you’re asking particular questions that get at that.
So it’s the effect of the observer and the interviewer on what they’re actually measuring.