Interviewer: Okay, the last criteria I’d like to talk about specifically reads, “This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and distress associated with discarding them.”
I’m wondering if that distress is ever difficult to assess in the context of patients who have very low insight.
Like how does distress and insight...
Interviewee: Well actually what I find is the patients who have little insight are very distressed about discarding.
The flip side is the patients who actually have good insight and now they’ve already started discarding and they like it.
They just have trouble doing it, but they want to discard.
So you ask them, “Well do you have distress when you try to discard?” and they’re like “No, no I want to.
I know that I have way too much stuff and my distress is whenever I think about the clutter and all kinds of problems it’s causing me and the fact that my husband is threatening to leave me because of it.”
So the distress is now caused by the clutter.
So it really completely depends on what’s going on with that person and the level of insight.
The people that you see that don’t have any insight at all, they deny that there’s a problem.
They say, “No no no that’s all my stuff.
Don’t touch it.
I’m fine with it.
It’s not causing me any difficulty” and they certainly would be very distressed if you made them throw anything out because from their standpoint it’s all of the stuff they need, they want to keep it all.
Interviewer: So it’s interesting because clinicians will often say you know that it’s hoarding disorder if it’s getting in the way of their life or if the person is distressed by it.
But often what they mean is those people are not actually distressed by their behavior at all, they’re very distressed by discarding, but they’re not distressed by their own behavior.
Interviewee: Yup and that was a big debate and that’s where there were (INAUDIBLE, ) and I disagreed because they were kind of writing the criteria and I think even one of their own rating scales, hoarding rating scales, that kind of implies that everybody with hoarding disorder has poor insight and doesn’t want to discard.
And I said no, everybody who comes into our research studies and clinic they all have good insight and they want to discard they just have trouble doing it.
And this battle of going back and forth because some of them feel like they want to keep most of it or some of them realize I don’t need to keep much of anything but I just don’t know how to decide or I’m quite aware that I don’t need all of this stuff, but it’s completely overwhelming and so I put it off and procrastinate.
So I think it was because we were seeing sort of different segments of the population.
Interviewer: Can you explain what you mean?
Interviewee: Yeah, there was this idea that if you had insight into it or somehow you’re not bothered by the attempts to discard it, you don’t have hoarding disorder.
I said, “No that’s definitely not the case.”
That issue is what exactly causes distress, is it clutter itself or is it trying to get rid of the clutter?
That depends on insight.