Interviewer: That makes total sense.
The next criteria reads, “The difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.”
I’m wondering if there’s a degree to which something like the amount of space a person has plays into this.
One could imagine two people with the same behavior, one of whom lives in a huge mansion is able to financially maintain eight storage units and the other who lives in a tiny trailer.
You could imagine a person continuing to save and never actually having their living areas substantially compromised because they have access to so much space whereas the second person their active living areas would be probably compromised after eight hours of this behavior.
So I’m wondering how you figure that into your diagnosis.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think you’re exactly right that the presence of clutter and the severity of clutter is influenced by a whole bunch of things that are completely external to the person’s psychopathology and for that reason [INAUDIBLE] sort of hoarding special interest groups at the foundation and our little research conferences.
I’ve really tried to, and I think other people have to, to really de-emphasize clutter as a diagnostic criteria because it’s a manifestation of the hoarding problem, but it is so dependent on other things.
So the amount of space someone has, how much money they have, if they’ve got a lot of money and a giant house, you’re right, that clutter isn’t really going to show up because they have plenty of storage space to put their things.
What I’ve seen is a lot of people that had to downsize and they moved from some giant house into a small apartment let’s say and all of the sudden now the small apartment is completely cluttered.
Or they have the external storage areas if they can afford them.
If they can’t afford them then they’ve got a clutter problem.
So yeah that’s one big element that I think is external to the person’s pathology, has to do with financial and space issue, and the other one is the impact of other people in the home.
So the child and adolescent people really brought this up is to say, if the kid has clear-cut hoarding symptoms with the other criteria met, but their parents are throwing their stuff away and preventing the clutter because mom goes in the room and cleans it up.
So they don’t have clutter so therefore they wouldn’t meet the criteria if you didn’t have that other clause at the end that says, “If there isn’t current clutter it’s because of a third-party.”
So that was a really important thing to put in their because otherwise you would never able to diagnose a child with hoarding disorder who had a parent who was cleaning up or somebody in college who had a roommate that forced them to sort stuff out or somebody who had a forced clean out by the house authorities or something like that.
But this issue of space has not really been dealt with well in the criteria.
There’s nothing in the criteria about kind of accounting for how much space the person actually has and that part of the criteria I think yeah is subjective and is kind of difficult because some people might have a pretty cluttered area but say, “Hey I can still use it” whereas another person would take a look at that and say, “No no no that’s not usable.”
So it is a subjective part of it and again it has to do with how much insight they have, whether the clinician has seen a photograph of the area, or if they make a judgement as to how small the area is, it’s fuzzy.
That’s unfortunately a pretty fuzzy part of the criteria, there’s a lot of subjectivity about how much use of the area is compromised or not compromised.