Interviewer: And you also have intended use.
So the question is if I never cook and I use my kitchen for storage, is that intended use of the kitchen?
Is the stove always intended for cooking?
Or could it be intended for storage?
Interviewee: Right.
I think that’s what the group that was working on this criteria was talking about is that somebody with hoarding might say, “Oh it’s no problem that I have multiple boxes piled up in my bathtub and shower area, that’s what I’m using it for.”
But I think most observers would say that’s a problem because you can’t use the bathroom for what it was intended.
So it’s just kind of converting all these other areas that are intended for other things into just storage for clutter.
Interviewer: Is the presence of physical objects, this is going to sound like a weird question but I’ll tell you why I’m asking, is the presence of physical objects required.
So, for example, could one hoard digital media like digital photographs, digital, you know somebody who saved movies or books on hard drives obsessively.
Interviewee: Yes, I’ve had patients who actually filled up multiple hard drives you know with gigabytes and terabytes worth of stuff that they have downloaded.
So yeah there’s digital hoarding.
Now it doesn’t take up much space physically, but it takes up space on the drive.
I’ve had people hoarded emails, maybe had ten thousand emails sitting in their inbox because they were afraid they might need them, so they didn’t want to delete them.
Same process.
So the thinking process is the same, the emotions are the same, just the medium may be different.
But yeah I’ve seen many patients with some level of hoarding of electronical, pdf files, whatever.
Interviewer: So this is again maybe going to start off sounding like a weird question, but I hope you’ll end up seeing why I’m asking.
So for some healthy individuals obviously there’s a degree of variance in the amount of free space they like around them.
So some people are very comfortable only if there desk is clear whereas other people kind of like having a cluttered desk, it makes them feel productive and likewise some people prefer to have a space that’s more cluttered because they like to feel more enclosed by their items.
I’m wondering if you feel like that sense of being surrounded by items or being enclosed is part of what’s going on in hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, so that’s another kind of area of subjectivity because it has to do with how people react to or what their own emotional sense is about openness versus closedness and clutter.
I have encountered some patients who do feel more safe when they’re home with their objects.
I know that in (NAME, ) books they described actually a lot more of people like that than I have seen who really describe a feeling of needing to be surrounded by their stuff that I can see.
They’re finding they’re scared for them to not have that stuff, they don’t feel comfortable without that stuff.
I personally have not, while I have read about it, talked with (NAME, ) about it, I haven’t seen that many of my patients or clinical studies that describe that, but a few, a few did.