Interviewer: So, [NAME] published a paper about the concept of insight in which he broke it down into several different constructs.
I don’t know if you remember or are familiar with that paper.
The constructs for hoarding disorder were defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation, and indifference.
I wonder if you think that these are all parts of the same sort of insight, if these are different insights, how these work together in your patients.
I don’t know if you need me to read them again.
Defensiveness, anosognosia, or the lack of ability to perceive the illness, overvalued ideation where you believe that the value of items is wrong or that you overvalue them, or that you’re just indifferent.
When I was reading this paper, and this is just to move the discussion along, I was really struck by how these four constructs seem to be so different.
So, indifference, you could imagine a patient with major depressive disorder having low insight and that they’re indifferent.
Overvalued ideation and anosognosia almost sound more delusional, that they have beliefs that are simply not in accordance with the real world whereas defensiveness almost seems like a reaction or a behavior rather than necessarily insight itself.
So, I don’t know, I was very struck by this paper and this breakdown and I was just kind of wondering if you had read it, if you have thought about it.
Interviewee: No, I think I remember seeing it but not going through it, so I didn’t know about those four constructs or four factors that he was identifying.
I think all of them do play a role in different patients and seeing all of those being important factors for at least some patients.
Maybe some of them might be related to one another.
It would be interesting to see what he found and are they really completely independent of one another or do they relate?
And again all of them are subject to change.
So I think that’s an important thing about insight in all of these disorders is that it’s not static at all, it changes.
It changes with education, it changes with various realizations, it changes with experience, treatment, all of that stuff.
I think the overvalued ideation part is really probably closer to what we think of as kind of the key level of insight into the disorder.
Do you really believe that you need to keep the stuff because it really is super valuable and you’re getting use of all of it, or not?
Or do you realize that in fact some of it is really stuff that you could get rid of?
Anosognosia and indifference may be related because sometimes people have both.
Anosognosia can be sometimes because patients will say I’ve kind of developed blindness to it.
It’s like having a really bad smell in your home and you’ve become indifferent to the smell so you don’t even notice it but when anybody else might come in they might notice a terrible smell.
It’s the same sort of thing.
They’re so used to it, it becomes part of their living environment that they don’t realize how bad it is because it’s been the same for ten years and that’s what they’re used to now.
They’re desensitized to it.
I’ve definitely seen that in a lot of different patients.
The total indifference to it, yeah I think you’re right, I think that probably is more related to depression.
They realize it’s a problem but they just don’t really care and that also depends on the level of impairment and impact.
So if they’ve got a lot of clutter but it’s really not enough to actually make a major difference in their lives it’s not preventing them from getting repairs done.
The opinions and influence of other people in the home make a huge difference there because if someone has been yelling at you for the last five years to clean up the rid of the clutter because they can’t stand it, you’re usually not going to be indifferent to it.
You’re going to realize that it’s causing a problem.
My family members hate it.
But patients will often say that, “Well I didn’t think it was a problem, but my family did so I’m going to have to do something about it.”
So when people are isolated then there’s nobody else around to challenge that.
They become indifferent to it.
They got comfortable just living that way and it just wasn’t a big deal even though they’re quite aware there’s too much clutter.
Interviewer: I just have three more questions here so I apologize.
I know that we’re at an hour and I want to be sensitive to your time, are you okay continuing through these last couple questions?
Interviewee: Yes.