Interviewer: Can you think of a specific case or cases that was challenging to diagnose because you felt like it was kind of on the border between pathological and normal behavior?
Interviewee: I would say the cases that I found hard to diagnose were not so much because of the difference between normal behavior, they were more because of a question about what was the primary problem.
Was the primary problem OCD, was the primary problem ADHD, or was the primary problem major depression?
Where it seemed like the clutter was really just because the person had ADHD and was disorganized.
They didn’t really endorse emotional difficulty in discarding, they didn’t get around to it, their time management was terrible, they weren’t home very much and so they just hadn’t done it.
But when they actually had time and when they perhaps had help cleaning up, there was no urge to save the stuff.
They knew that stuff needed to be gotten rid of or put away, but they just hadn’t done that yet.
So it didn’t really set the criteria because yes they had clutter and it was disorganized and perhaps there was too much stuff in their home, but it wasn’t because of real emotional difficulty discarding or the need to save things because you might need them someday and all that.
It was really just because of ADHD and disorganization and time management problems and all that stuff.
And then other cases where it appeared to start or at least move from kind of subclinical within the normal range kind of behavior into clearly more pathological behavior only when there was a major hit.
The patient developed a clear-cut major depression because somebody died, or they lost their job, or whatever reason they became depressed and something major changed in their lives, somebody moved out of the home and so now they were left alone.
And then after that they basically just stopped taking care of their environment and stopped cleaning up the home, stopped throwing things out, just not really bothering, they use something they just toss it in a pile.
It really had more to do with low motivation, low interest, an inability to take care of their environment.
Again, not really so much because of a clear-cut urge to save or perceived need to save those items.
So they had clutter in their homes, their homes looked like those of other people with hoarding disorder, and yet the motivations were different, the reasons were different.
So those were the cases.
I think in terms of differentiating from normal behavior, it’s on a continuum.
Just like most psychiatric symptoms or syndromes are on a continuum of normal behavior and so you use the same sort of criteria as with anything else which is, is it causing distress, is it causing impairment in some area of functioning, social functioning, work functioning, family conflict, health, etc. It’s very rare in my experience that I actually come upon somebody who is right in the middle where I said, “ Oh yeah, you got some of the symptoms of hoarding disorder, but you’re not really in the clinical category.”
That happens once in a while.
I would say maybe once a year I might run across one of those patients where their (INAUDIBLE, ) score is below forty, but it’s not really in the normal range either, it’s kind of in between a little bit.
Sometimes patients with OCD, I’ll find them with subclinical hoarding disorder or hoarding symptoms so they wouldn’t meet criteria for hoarding disorder, but on the other hand it’s not normal either, they’re somewhere in between.
When we recruit for people or patients get referred for treatment, they usually are much more severely affected.