Interviewer: Now I’d like to talk through the DSM-5 criteria a little bit more specifically.
Are there particular elements of these criteria that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that you have ever thought different clinicians may apply differently or have to do with clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean I’m biased because I wrote the first chapter of the criteria in my office a few years ago and then worked on the committee with the DSM-5 that worked on these criteria ten years ago or eight years ago.
So I think that generally they’re pretty good, I think the field tests have been pretty good in terms of their validity and their usability and the interrater reliability was actually pretty good for hoarding disorder as compared to mood disorders and anxiety disorders.
But I think a lot of people may get confused or misdiagnose people simply because they just don’t really get the phenomenology that much, they just haven’t had experience diagnosing this disorder or working with patients with the disorder because the patients may be really not very good historians.
Until you actually really sit down and go into it with them you may not be able to really elicit why is it that they’re saving stuff and do they have emotional difficulty discarding and because the interview sometimes can be difficult.
Sometimes the patients are really tangential and overinclusive and long-winded so they’re diverting it.
Sometimes they don’t really want to talk about that issue.
Sometimes they lack insight into what’s actually driving their own behavior.
So I think it probably can be difficult and it really does depend on how much training and clinical experience the person has or how much exposure they might have had to people with hoarding disorder.
People who are seeing a hoarding patient for the first time may not really know what to do or how to assess for it because it hasn’t been included in training programs up until just a couple of years ago.
So there’s plenty of, probably most of, mental health clinicians out there who still really don’t know how to assess hoarding disorder patients or to make the diagnosis or apply the diagnostic criteria well because they’ve just never had the training.