Interviewer: You mentioned earlier that you have patients frequently that come into your clinics who are away that their behavior constitutes a problem and I wonder if you know or if you have talked to them about how they reach that state of high insight on their own.
If it was mostly externally driven, if it was mostly internally driven, how did people get there?
Interviewee: So almost everybody in our clinic who has hoarding disorder is there because they know they have hoarding disorder.
There’s only a couple because the people who don’t have insight won’t come.
They’ll either refuse or they’ll come in once because they were dragged there and then will never come again, because they don’t believe they have a problem.
So almost by definition everybody who continues in a treatment or a research study is somebody knows they’ve got a problem with this.
And I think the pathways to that realization are probably a lot of different ones.
Sometimes it’s because they watched a show or read a book about it.
Sometimes it’s because other people have been working on them for years saying I think you’ve got a problem you really need to get some help for this, why don’t you call a professional organizer, why don’t you get some help.
It could be because it was identified in the context of some other disorder.
They came in for depression and then somebody found out they had hoarding problems.
Most of the time it’s been on their own.
The individual or family being the kind of the most important people, much less often are referrals from other clinicians.
In fact, it’s been dismayed that we don’t get more referrals from clinicians and certainly not from those housing authorities and fire departments.
There’s a lot of those task forces that have civil authorities of whatever kind and at least the ones in (NAME, ) they never refer the patients.
We’ve gone and done talks with them explaining okay it’s a disorder you need to treat it and find these people and get them into treatment but they don’t refer the people.
So, unfortunately, we don’t get nearly enough referrals from those external sources.