Rebecca: So rather than trying to force it on them, you get them to kind of say it.
Interviewee: Yeah, versus getting them to understand what are some of the benefits of changing the behavior? What are some of the cons of changing this behavior? What are some of the benefits of not changing? What are some of the cons of not changing? So just really like changing that approach to getting them to elicit some of the reasons why change might be helpful or might create less stress for them and working with them there. The other thing that I typically do is try to get them to think about, you know, it’s reasonable to want to save things, it’s reasonable to think that you may be able to use them again in the future if it’s sentimental or that kind of thing, but also getting them to think about are these things that are really easy for you to get rid of that you’re just not getting rid of right now? And so, kind of getting them to start on the smaller scale and working their way up.
Rebecca: One thing that we wanted to talk about, and I’m getting towards the end of the time that we have today so I want to make sure to get these last couple of questions in, when you talk to patients with hoarding problems, what—and this might be a difficult question for you to answer to feel free to tell me—when you talk to patients with hoarding problems, what ideas do they have about what’s caused them to have these problems? What do they think?
Interviewee: That’s actually a great question, I’ve actually talked with the people that I’ve worked with a lot. So, one of the ladies that comes to mind, I was working at her home disability [INAUDIBLE 40:16] and she was staying in the extended stay. We worked on her home for over a year and we would spend a lot of time while we sorting and organizing trying to do decluttering exercises and talking about what caused it. She really linked it to a rape that had happened to her in her late teen kind of early adulthood period, as well as a number or string of stressful life events that occurred relative to a decade of time and she actually had become morbidly obese as well and she basically said that, “no one would break into my home or try to hurt me if I am obese and if they can’t really get into my home.”