Rebecca: That’s interesting, so she kind of saw hoarding as a self-protective, almost like a creation of a shell or a safe space?
Interviewee: Yes! Yes, that’s a great way to put it, like a shell or a safe place. And also she derived a lot of pleasure from it and obviously being someone who had been traumatized, she wanted to have a pleasurable experience and acquiring was one way in which she could do that. For some of the other patients, I have another patient that I saw for a while—I’ve never seen a more clear-cut case of actual cognitive deficit in a patient that may have led to hoarding as well as kind of impulsivity, and so it’s kind of different to see these different kinds of cases and how they manifested and what maybe led to their hoarding. For her, it was definitely like, she, I gave her a sorting task once and it took her like 12 minutes to sort 20 items that were clearly could be sorted in two minutes, and it was these five categories like newspapers, magazines, toiletry items, clothing items, that kind of thing, and she had significant difficulty attending, just making decisions about where things should go, wanting to kind of be right about a decision. Her hoarding seemed to stem a lot from this kind of problem as well as this kind of pleasure that would derive from her acquiring things and thinking like, “I may be able to use this thing in the future” or “this was given to me by someone”. She had every mardi gras cup she had ever collected every time she had been to mardi gras, and as a person who also saves a couple of mardi gras cups to kind of have for nostalgia reasons, I would never keep every single one. And for her if she got rid of one cup it truly meant that she had gotten rid of every single memory for her if she got rid of all of them at once.
Rebecca: That kind of brings me to the next question really nicely, which is, again this might be different for different patients or it might be very difficult to say but, do you think that the explanations that people give to justify their hoarding behavior are post hoc justifications for an underlying pathological need? Do you think that the cognition justifies something that’s going on in the brain and is justifying it, or do you think that the justifications are actually what’s causing the behavior?
Interviewee: Gosh, that’s a very good question. To be honest, I think it’s both. I think that you could have—I mean when I think of other kind of like underlying cognitive mechanisms and factors just with any disorder, even with PTSD, having this bias that the world may be a dangerous place to be something that I kind of have early on, but then these experiences that I have reinforce that belief. And so I think that for hoarders it could be a little bit of both, maybe like there are some beliefs that they have that are them for some reason reinforced by these experiences and then they’re also post hoc reasons as to why they’re doing it. 
Rebecca: Yeah, I agree that it’s a very difficult question to answer and it’s been very interesting.
Interviewee: Yeah, the questions you’re asking are so fascinating.