Rebecca: Yeah, that is very interesting. So, I guess the last piece of criteria that we’d like to talk through with you is something that you mentioned already and that’s about distress and how you assess this. So, the criterion reads, “difficulty discarding due to a perceived need to save items and to distress associated with discarding them.” And so, how do you determine how much distress is normal or abnormal? And is it difficult to sometimes determine the level of distress when people have very low insight and deny having a problem? So perhaps say, “Oh, yeah, I could throw away this item anytime I wanted and it wouldn’t upset me and it would be fine, but I just choose not to.” How do you assess distress in that context?
Interviewee: That is hard, typically what I do when I was treating patients is we would do a behavioral experiment in the first session where I would actually ask them to bring in a couple of items, and the idea was that I was going to keep the items for a week and then they would be returned back to the patient just to kind of see and to get a gage like you know kind of like an actual behavioral design or experiment to check what their distress level was regarding parting with the item at the moment. But even if you know it’s not going to be thrown away, is it still difficult to not have it and to wonder what I’m going to do with the item? And so that’s kind of one way—I would say most of the time people don’t have a problem, or at least from my own small sample of anecdotal evidence, I don’t have a lot of people telling me that they’re distressed if things get thrown away. But [INAUDIBLE 29:47] have been some occasions where someone felt [INAUDIBLE 19:50] something away, you know? And they got very upset about it, they got very angry, they couldn’t let it go, they’re still thinking about it staying in my office, and so it’s kind of sometimes easy to determine the distress. That patient I mentioned earlier, there was in incident in which it was much harder to determine. He was very—he was like, you know, we tried to asses hoarding and he was like, “I’m not a hoarder.” And then just answered zero on all the items on the hoarding scale, because he claimed he wasn’t distressed, but it was unclear to see. I would actually have to physically do an experiment we would go there and kind of toss away some of these things that are clearly trash and see how he reacts or responds. For the most part, I feel like people are more easily able to tell me that they’re highly distressed by the thought of getting rid of things.
Rebecca: So, they are able to self-identify themselves as having distress?
Interviewee: Yes, they are not as able to identify the impairment, I would say, that’s where the insight comes in for me. So, they’re not as able to determine that it’s a problem but they are able to tell me that, “yes it’s very distressing and if I were to get rid of this I would be very upset or sad or angry”.