Interviewer: Is your sense that people are actually afraid of losing the memory and forgetting if they get rid of the item?
Like they think that the memory will be gone and they will forget the memory or is it--?
Interviewee: Yes, I think that they definitely think that and as a part of my master’s thesis I actually did a memory INAUDIBLE and hoarders actually have really great memories, and that’s been another interesting finding in the literature, that the memory deficits are all perceived, they’re not actually there.
But there is this fear of forgetting or not remembering something.
Interviewer: That is so interesting.
I don’t think that’s ever come up in an interview before but that is, I think that brings very true...it’s something that nobody else has picked up on and something that I’d like to talk to you about.
Interviewee: Yeah, it’s definitely fascinating.
I did a verbal INAUDIBLE test where there were asked to recite items and even like a 20-minute delay when I go back and reassess these 20 items that they’re told to remember, and it was fascinating to see time and time again hoarders—because that’s who I recruited for my thesis—just like remember every single item I had said.
But it also makes sense to me because they can remember where an item is in their home even if it’s buried among like, I mean I can barely find my keys and my home is really organized, and they can tell you where this random sheet of paper is.
Interviewer: But for you and your experience with these patients at the same time they have kind of a fear of losing memories.
Do you feel like, so we talked a little bit about this inappropriate valuation kind of inability to distinguish between things that are valuable and things that are less valuable, do you think that that extends to memories as well?
That they have trouble distinguishing between things that that should be remembered and things that are able to be forgotten?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah, I don’t think I’ve ever thought about that but yes.
Interviewer: Interesting, that was really interesting, I unfortunately am at the end of my time with you today, but I would love to continue this conversation.