Interview 015
Rebecca: Okay great. So those are all the listing prompts that we have for you and I appreciate you going through that exercise, and again, as I explained the idea behind that is to generate these lists and to kind of be able to compare both within clinician groups, different kinds of clinicians, and to compare clinicians to patients to be able to say which ideas are most salient for different groups. So now we’re just going to get into a kind of semi-structure qualitative interview, and to start that off I’d just like you to give me a really brief idea of your professional background related to hoarding disorder, how you are involved with either research or treating patients with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yes, so I went to undergrad at [NAME 6:39] University where I majored in psychology and worked with several of the labs on campus doing research as an undergrad and became involved in a lab that studied anxiety and related disorders kind of more broadly, and so I ended up staying post my bachelor’s degree and getting a research assistant position there and a grant where I worked on anxiety treatment trials. During that time, I became interested in anxiety as well as some of the related conditions like OCD and hoarding, and so I ended up applying to graduate school and staying at [NAME 7:19] and working there with [NAME 7:23] who had a former student’s lab here at [NAME 7:24] clinic who also did hoarding research so I just started working with her and it became kind of an interest of mine. And so it was just something that clinically was fascinating to me, obviously from a research perspective was fascinating to me, and so I started developing my master’s thesis around this idea of hoarding and how maybe things in the environment like clutter might exacerbate hoarding symptoms. And then sent those to my [INAUDUBLE 7:52] graduate school kind of studying both hoarding and OCD, publishing a fair amount in this area and then since then am living in New Orleans working here at [NAME 8:04] as a researcher and don’t focus as much anymore on hoarding. This is not the primary premises of what we do at the [NAME 8:12] we see a lot more of PTSD and maybe other anxiety patients and a lot of primary depression and substance abuse, but it’s still something I kind of dabbled in. Also, I’ve treated a handful of patients working in graduate school in [NAME 8:25] clinic. We have an anxiety and behavioral health clinic, which was an outpatient clinic that services individuals on the university’s [INAUDIBLE 8:31] community and so I carried the case load of about two hoarders at the time throughout my time in graduate school working there as well so all the cases of clinical experience were kind of understanding and treating the symptoms. 
Rebecca: And in your current position do you see hoarding patients clinically? I know you said that it’s not your primary focus.
Interviewee: No, I do not. I don’t see patients at all now unless it’s a part of a treatment trial. I’ve decided to primarily fund myself through grants and I do have some work and some things I’m collecting right now with regards to OCD but nothing right now with regard to hoarding.