Interviewer: So that brings us nicely into the next section of the interview which focuses on the question of insight. And so, as we’ve talked about a lot of the literature surrounding hoarding disorder describes many hoarding patients as having low insight, and so the first question to start out with is how would you as a clinician define insight?
Interviewee: I mean think that I often times define it in impairment as well. It’s like, are they able to recognize the level of impairment that is coming from behaviors that they’re currently engaging in? And if they’re not able to—let’s say it’s causing significant conflict with a spouse, they are pretty much sleeping on the floor somewhere randomly in their home and they have to wash their face at work or something like that, brush their teeth, then I would say not understanding or recognizing that these behaviors are to some degree not normal is how I kind of think about the patient’s ability to understand he repercussions of what’s happening or how it’s affecting their everyday lives.
Interviewer: Mmhm, so like acknowledgement of distress.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: For the patients that you’ve seen, how much insight do they tend to have by the time they get to you? What level of insight do you think that most levels of patients that you’ve seen are?
Interviewee: Let me think of some of the patients that I remember treating. I can think about five patients off hand and I’ve only remember one out of the five actually having poor insight. The others all had I think really high insight into their problems.
Interviewer: And in your experience with the patients that you’ve seen, do you have any knowledge of how they came to gain that insight on their own or what the process was of them realizing their disorder?
Interviewee: For most of them it became impairment. So one lady, she had hoarded her home literally to the brim and was living in an extended stay hotel for over a year, and he was getting herself into a lot of financial difficulty because she had a monthly payment on a home she could not live in, she was paying for a hotel every single night, she had started to hoard the hotel room to the brim, and they had to obviously come and check on the room from time to time and she had been cited by them, I think, for being a fire hazard in the room. So, she was able to come to the conclusion for herself, “this is a problem, I need help”. The other lady had a conflict with her husband who was an artist, and she was having some conflict with him about the finances and the status of their home given her excessive shopping and inability to get rid of things. Another patient had a similar financial problem, she owned like three homes and financially was in a lot of difficulty because she had owned the homes originally to rent it out as rental properties, but then started using them as a place to store her items that she was hoarding and was not able to afford the mortgages on them without having this supplemental income. So, she also was kind of at the tipping point for knowing that it was an issue and needing to seek help.