Interviewer: What about things that are maybe on the line like using a guest room for a guest as opposed to using a guest room for storage? Or even going a step forward and using the surface of a desk to work on as opposed to using the surface of a desk for storage?
Interviewee: Yeah, I would say that’s when I would consider it kind of like on the line and maybe more subclinical. I would, probably in that instance, take into account other things like their difficulty discarding possessions and how hard that is, and whether or not this behavior is actually just kind of, you know, let’s say [INAUDIBLE] from being at the clinical kind of level, if that makes sense? I would also kind of take in to maybe their impairment and how much it bothers them into my conceptualization and diagnosis. And once again I think that I always kind of look back and think, “they’re here for treatment, they want treatment, this is the way I’m going to treat it.” So, labeling it right now as hoarding disorder, whether or not they’re to some degree subclinical versus fully clinical won’t change the way in which I approach it diagnostically, it just may be easier to work with in this moment.
Interviewer: What about home size? How does that figure into it?
Interviewee: Home size? That’s a really great question and when I was in grad school, mu supervisor and I talked about that a lot. To be honest with you, I don’t think it’s hoarding if you can afford to buy a home. Because you may have this difficulty discarding possessions, you may have this excessive acquisition, but in that case, you likely don’t have the active clutter of the living spaces, which is to me what causes—It’s kind of like the combination the impairment that comes from that symptom.
Interviewer: so if you can keep acquiring stuff and have it not impair your life, you don’t have a disorder?
Interviewee: That would be my thought, yeah. I don’t think I’ve ever thought about it as in depth as we are but yeah, I would ever say that—I mean I think about other disorders and I most of the time try to think about things in terms of when to make it a disorder is when it’s impairing. You know, think about even anxiety. If you have a significant amount of anxiety but it’s not impairing you in any way, even though I may worry about things excessively, if it doesn’t interfere with my sleep or if it doesn’t impair my relationships, is it really a disorder? But it’s a very fascinating and interesting question.