Rebecca: Okay, so now we’re going to kind of move into the section of the interview that talks about how to know hoarding behavior and what distinguishes hoarding as a disorder. So one of the things we’re interested in is the line between hoarding as a disorder and normal saving behavior or saving behavior that’s on the normal spectrum. So in your mind, what are the most important differences between normal saving behaviors such as perhaps collecting or even extreme collecting and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: If I had to name one thing I would say it’s the impairment that it causes. I obviously think that that’s the nearest—there’s a very thin line between what we consider something that meets for this clinical and diagnostic criteria that we have and what doesn’t, and to me the kind of thing that I’m constantly looking for when I’m seeing symptoms of someone on the spectrum, which I think that most things are, is the impairment and is it really interfering with aspects of daily kind of functioning like social relationships, employment, occupational relationships, and tasks, and just kind of an overall a [INAUDIBLE 10:20] and living. 
Rebecca: And how do you distinguish impairment from just kind of like impact? What sorts of things do you look for when you look for something that is really impairing? I guess that’s maybe a tricky question but what I’m trying to get at is people change their lives and things have an impact on their lives, but what for you is really the line that pushes something like that into something that is an impairment?
Interviewee: That’s a good question. I mean, I like for it to be something that the patient thinks is impairing, not something that necessarily a clinician or I am telling them that is impairing, although with hoarding that can be sometimes trickier given that sometimes patients aren’t coming necessarily on their own accord. So, I guess the things that I’m looking for are, “is it causing substantial conflict?”, not that it’s just impacting the relationship but that it’s causing substantial conflict or something like that in their relationship maybe with someone that is living in the home. Maybe their safety is at risk or the safety of others is at risk. Maybe financially they’re not able anymore to afford having multiple storage units or places to put their things. Maybe they don’t live in their home anymore and that’s becoming sort of a difficulty having to afford living in a hotel as well as having a home that you can’t use for its intended purposes. But I don’t have a great answer for that because that is tough.