Rebecca: Okay. So either using the rating scale or people bringing pictures of their things.
The final criteria I'd like to talk to you about, before we move on, is it says the difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them. So this is also something that came up that people sometimes are very sentimentally attached to items or they attribute emotion to that, to items. And I wonder how you make the determination of how much distress is normal or abnormal when it comes to discarding.
Interviewee: Well, yeah if, if you can describe the, the sentimental attachment to an object that, again, fits with my conceptualization of how people usually think about objects. So, you know, I got this at a particular event and it was very important to me, and therefore I want to keep it. You know, in the event and the object and what it represents makes it coherent description, I think that that’s a relatively normal experience. But if somebody says to me, well I had a picture of a cuckoo clock and I’ve lost it and I never will get over having the picture of the cuckoo clock and losing it is actually painful. Yeah, it’s very hard for me to understand how that represents a normal attachment to an item.
Rebecca: Right. So it sounds like there's barely borderline cases for you that it's usually pretty clear cut that the attachment is extreme.
Interviewee: Pretty much, yeah.
Rebecca: Okay. Now we're going to move on to talking about insight because hoarders are often described as having low insight. So the first thing I'd like to ask you is how you as a clinician understand the concept of insight.
Interviewee: Well, I think that I mean by the term insight is understanding that this particular way of dealing with things is really outside the range of what we expect in normal experience and is, in some ways, interfering with their living their lives. In a reasonable way, it’s causing them trouble, causing them stress, taking extraordinary amounts of time or resources. Things like that.
Rebecca: Okay. So when patients come to you, do you find that the patients that you see often have high levels of insight already? Or have you seen patients that are still kind of low insight?
Interviewee: It’s quite variable and it kind of depends on how they get here, but people who come seeking help for hoarding voluntarily usually have a reasonable amount of insight that this is a problem. People that are pushed into coming by family members and things like that often have extremely little insight and, you know, think it’s everybody else’s problem and that they’re just fine.
Rebecca: And how do you in your practice help patients to try to gain insight? What’s your process for helping a patient with low insight?
Interviewee: Well I, you know, I want to talk to them about what exact things are happening. What restrictions are occurring because of their need to attend to these items. You know, can they not let people into their home because of it, can they not use things that are important to them, is it causing problems in terms of relationships because there is a big struggle with family members about the way they’re keeping things. Things like that.
Rebecca: So you help them to see the way that it has impacted their life. That’s what you concentrate on.
Interviewee: Right.