Interview 016
Rebecca: Okay, so now we are going to get into the more free-form interview script, and I'm just going to talk to you a little bit about, your, the ways that you distinguish hoarding disorder in your practice or research. I want to be respectful of your time throughout this interview so if we get close to running out of time at any point please just let me know and we will stop, okay? 
Interviewee: Okay. 
Rebecca: So first I'd just like to have you briefly give me a background on your own work with hoarding disorder in terms of your educational background and also how you came to be interested in hoarding disorder. 
Interviewee: Okay. Well, I'm a psychologist by training, so I actually have a Ph.D., and I have been, for a number of years, been very active in the treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and related disorders. And something until relatively recently, hoarding was lumped in with Obsessive Compulsive disorder, and so in the context of treating people with Obsessive Compulsive Disorders one of the things I was in the position to see people who presented hoarding problems and it was considered to be Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, treating them that way. I have attended a number of seminars, workshops, things like that on hoarding. Again, most of them associated with training sponsored by or related to the treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. I met an actual OCD foundation, for example. The sponsors training, I’ve gone to training like that. I've gone to independently presented training workshops with some of the leading people in the field- NAME, NAME, people like that. 
Rebecca: And you're mostly concerned with seeing patients clinically? 
Interviewee: Excuse me?
Rebecca: You're mostly concerned with clinical care of patients with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s my, my work is clinical rather than research.
Rebecca: Okay, so now I'd like to talk a little bit about the way that you distinguish, like when you're seeing patients, the way that you distinguish whether or not somebody has hoarding disorder. So for you, what are the most important differences between what could be considered normal saving behavior, perhaps such as collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well, I think the most important discriminating factor is that the hoarding has gotten to the point where it’s interfering with their living situation, often a precluding safe entry or exit from their home, or causing them to not be able to use certain parts of their home, or their car for that matter. There’s times when people are engaging in behavior that causing them significant health risks, [INAUDIBLE 10:07) reporting falls, or sanitary risks because they’re hoarding things that are likely to become dangerous.
Rebecca: So for you, the distinction between normal saving behavior or even, you know, borderline cases like somebody who's an extreme collector is whether their home is still safe for that and able to be used, is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah, or they, you know, significant interference with their ability to use certain parts of their home, things like that.
Rebecca: Okay. Can you think of a specific case or cases that was challenging to diagnose because you felt that it was somewhere on the borderline between pathological and non-pathological behavior. And could you just describe like how you, how you make a decision like that or does that never come up for you?
Interviewee: I honestly think that the people where I’ve thought that they had hoarding disorder was really pretty clear.