Interviewer: —in terms of whether people grow more isolated because of their behavior or their, you know, more isolated status enhances their behavior.
Interviewee: Right, well I think it probably goes both directions.
Interviewer: And so this is a very big picture question as well. Do you ever feel that there are cultural forces associated with value that associate value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions that may play a role in the development of hoarding disorder or that…
Interviewee: Why, I think if it’s a factor, it’s not a dominant factor. I mean, a lot of the things that I see people keeping, and hoarding, and the way they’re living, the serial status is not such a big deal as much as it is emotional comfort. Well, you know…
Interviewer: So…
Interviewee: Again, it’s related to these ideas that if I don’t have something, then I won’t feel bad.
Interviewer: What about, so some people who study hoarding disorder place most of the emphasis on anxiety or negative emotions associated with throwing things away, whereas others really see it as important, the positive emotions associated with acquiring. In your experience, how does that balance out in the patients that you see?
Interviewee: Well I think it varies across patients, but I think that both elements are likely to be present in practically ever hoarder. That is to say, they’re getting some pleasure or satisfaction out of acquiring things or having a complete set of things, or something like that. Or, you know, getting a particularly treasured item, and I think that there’s, in almost all hoarders, or at least all hoarders I’ve ever worked with, a real avoidance and stress associated with letting go of those things.
Interviewer: So for each patient there’s a little bit of both, for some there’s more of a positive acquiring, and for some there is more…
Interviewee: Yeah, I think there is a variable mix, but I think most are present in practically everybody with hoarding.
Interviewer: What about the relationship of memory to hoarding disorder? So, one of the things that you mentioned was people who are afraid of discarding because they're afraid of forgetting things. How do you feel that figures into…
Interviewee: I think it’s an important part of what maintains hoarding, but I think it’s because of misunderstanding of how memory works. I mean, it, I think, all of hoarders have this innocent [INAUDIBLE] idea that memory is contained in the object. That, if I lose, I will forget it, rather than the memory is actually in my brain. And I can remember an object even if I don’t have it. And I think that that arises out of the fact that if you look at something then you remember things about it. So then, you make the mistake of thinking this memory is somehow maintained in the object.
Interviewer: Interesting. So it seems to be the kind of like a, almost a cognitive mistaking the object with the memory.
Interviewee: Right.