Interviewee: Okay, that makes sense.
Yeah, that totally makes sense.
Okay, so now I'd like to think through, if you recall the list that we generated, of reasons that patients give for their hoarding behaviors.
So, you know, we had given things like believing the object will be useful later, attaching too much emotional significance to objects.
I’m wondering, if in your mind, these explanations that patients give are kind of their root of hoarding disorder, or do you think that these are post hoc justifications that the patients have kind of come up with to rationalize what's essentially a need to save things?
So do they save things because of these reasons or are these reasons generated because they save things, if that makes sense?
Interviewee: I actually think that almost all mental disorders, I don’t know if you’re familiar with acceptance therapy but this idea that, personally, all mental disorders involve, in part, experiential avoidance.
Okay, and that means that, you know, people are engaging in what amounts to maladaptive behaviors in effort to not feel, usually anxiety or other uncomfortable emotions but sometimes even positive emotions.
And I think that’s really a good way of understand hoarding as well as most other disorders so that, and the other thing I think is that people make up explanations for why they do things when you ask them, they may not have them, even if they have, they may not really understand why they’re doing things that they’re doing, really because in their experience, or their understanding of the world, it seems they’re avoiding or escaping uncomfortable feelings.
If giving things away or disposing of things is uncomfortable, they’re going to avoid doing it.
If you ask them way they don’t do it, they come up with a reason.
Interviewer: So for you it seems that it’s more of a post hoc justification, but that there’s still avoidance based reasons for why they do things.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Anything can be avoidance.
It’s not really thought through until you ask them.
You know, then they come up with a reason.
Interviewer: Okay.
Another question and we're coming to the close of our interview.
I appreciate you sticking with me.
So one of the big questions and I have about hoarding disorder is about the life course of hoarders because so many people tend to be identified relatively late in life.
And I wonder if you have any sense for your patients how long their behavior has typically been going on before you see them?
Interviewee: Yeah, for most people it probably starts much earlier in life than we ever know about it.
And it may be minimized because they’re not in control of most of their life circumstances in the the younger years.
And it may start to get dramatically worse in later stages of life, again, because their reduced influences by other people that would curtail it.
So that if people, you know, become…Lose their partner, for example, in later life, there’s no counteractive force with the other person saying “what a minute, you’ve got to get rid of some of this stuff.”
Or, it seems like that or they’re alone anyway.
So, no real counteractive interactions.
Interviewer: Right.
So it sounds like some little bit about this disorder is social and has to do with isolation, which is perhaps…
Interviewee: I think that increases it, yeah.
Interviewer: I mean I guess there’s also a cause and effect problem—
Interviewee: Right.