Rebecca: So very few borderline cases in your experience.
Interviewee: Yeah, I don’t see much that, that really falls in the borderline range of this kind of thing, you know. People that I end up dealing with, it’s pretty clear that it’s a significant problem.
Rebecca: And what about cases that were on the border with other mental health problems, such as perhaps depression or OCD. So…
Interviewee: There’s considerable overlap. An awful lot of the people with hoarding also have significant depression. They may well have Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. They may well have other anxiety disorders that may come to attention first. I mean, they may come in because they are presenting with an anxiety problem, then you discover they’ve also got a hoarding problem.
Rebecca: So these, these disorders are common, and do you ever feel like it's difficult to determine if somebody is primarily suffering from hoarding disorder or if for example, they're severely depressed and are just unable to clean up their space, does that ever become an issue for you and your practice?
Interviewee: The thing, realistically, I think they’re at the point where I think they’ve got a real hoarding problem. Comorbid problems like depression are there, but I don't think it's the that hoarding problem is secondary to the depression. I think, actually, may well run the other direction.
Rebecca: Okay. So their primary problem might actually be depression.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Rebecca: What about the distinction between Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and hoarding disorder? And as you mentioned, that's a fairly recent conceptual distinction and I wonder how you see that play out in your own practice or if you think it’s a valid distinction to be made.
Interviewee: Well, I think it’s a valid distinction and, again, in the past we used to consider hoarding just a variation of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. The thing is that, realistically, some people you see with hoarding don’t have other kinds of things that look like OCD at all. I mean we don’t have the clear obsessions about any topic other than their possessions. They don’t have distinctive compulsions other than collecting or sorting or hoarding things. Or then you also run into people that have very typical symptoms of OCD with a contamination of fears or karma obsessions or whatever else, and typical OCD-like compulsive behaviors other than hoarding, so you know they’re watchers or checkers, or, you know, they’re doing mental rituals or whatever.
Rebecca: So it seems like with that it is, in your mind, they are different, but they often can co-occur, although they can occur separately as well.
Interviewee: Right.
Rebecca: How often would you say that they co-occur? Just again, this is not, we're not trying to get statistically significant, we're just asking people about their experiences with their patients that they find that it's very common in the patient populations that they see to have it overlap with OCD symptoms or if in their experience, it’s to be expected.
Interviewee: Yeah, I, I think maybe 20-25% of people with hoarding are also people with OCD, I don’t…You know, I…That’s a guess.
Rebecca: Yeah, sure. That’s all we’re looking for, just to, you know, get people’s kind of subjective experience with treating this disorder.