Interviewer: Okay. What about this criteria, it says the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that can just enclutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use.
So, I, we talked about that in our list.
I wonder if you ever encounter situations where you feel that things like home size, so for example, somebody who lives in a very small space, like a trailer versus somebody who has the disposable income to live in a large house or have storage units.
How does that play into determining whether their possessions can just en-clutter their active living areas.
Interviewee: Well, I think even people that have got lots of resources and lots of property still can end up with what looks like hoarding, even if it’s, you know, not impacting them as much as it might somebody that has limited resources.
You know, I have people who have barns or auxiliary spaces and stuff that are filled with stuff, and, you know, maybe they are less impacted in terms of their living space, although it tends to creep in there as well.
Interviewer: Do you feel like it's easier to develop or to identify hoarding disorder in somebody who has a smaller space?
Interviewee: I don’t know if it is… I can think of some people that I’ve worked with who, you know, have plenty of resources and just have lots and lots of stuff in various places.
Interviewer: Okay.
What about substantially compromises their intended use?
The reason I'm asking you about this is different people intend to use different spaces in different ways.
So for example, somebody might have a guest bathroom that they use for storage.
While that's not the intended use of the guest bathroom, they don't intend to use as a bathroom.
You know, people kind of can make determinations or likewise, some people might really not be able to work at a desk that's fluttered, whereas other people, you know, a cluttered desk really doesn't impact them.
Do you find that those kinds of distinctions are at play in making a diagnosis of hoarding disorder or do you find that it's very clear cut and, intended use isn’t easy?
Interviewee: Most of time it is pretty clear that, that there are significant parts of their home, for example, that are compromised in the, in the, you know like, they can’t use the dining room table to eat at because it’s piled with stuff.
And at least, you know, the bulk of the hoarding that I have seen, that’s, that’s the kind of situation that they’re in, it’s pretty clear.
Interviewer: Okay.
And, can I ask you, in your practice, how you make determinations about their living space?
Did they just describe their living space to you, or do you have other ways of, of examining that question?
Interviewee: Well, my other really useful thing there is to, a, send a pictures and rating scale…
Interviewer: Oh, okay yeah.
You use their rating scale.
Interviewee: …that, in years, you know, it, it was developed by NAME and company.
That, I can show to people, sometimes people bring in pictures.