Interviewer: Now we’re going to talk about the DSM-5 criteria, which I'm sure you, you're aware of how those were developed and probably were involved in, in those discussions.
I just wanted to first start by asking if you have occasion to apply the DSM-5 criteria in your practice.
I assume you do.
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE ) I can’t quite hear.
Interviewer: Oh, I'm sorry.
It got a little loud in here.
I was just wondering if you use, I assume that you use the DSM five criteria in your practice with the intent of diagnosing an individual with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: Yeah.
Do you find that there are particular elements of the criteria that you regard is particularly difficult to apply or that you worry sometimes that it could be applied differently by different clinicians?
Perhaps things that are related to …
Interviewee: I think that sort of generally true with the DSM, but I think they’re, they’re reasonably clear.
You know, let me reach into my desk here for my DSM.
Interviewer: Yeah, I have them.
I can read them to you if you’d like.
Interviewee: I actually turn to the right page, I...
If you want to read them that, that would probably make it easier.
Interviewer: Yeah, sure.
So, where did, I was just going to go through a couple of key phrases and ask you about the way that you think about them.
The first is, persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value.
And I wonder, I guess about the question of actual value, and how, or if you ever worry about that in terms of patients who are saving particular kinds of things that maybe are not, you know, worthless garbage or that are saving things that have sentimental value that, you know, that might be subjective or difficult to determine.
Do you ever struggle with the idea of a hoarder’s possessions, having actual value?
Interviewee: Well, you know, some people obviously are saving things that, that do have some financial value that could be sold or, you know, could be collected, kind of thing.
And…
Interviewer: So if, if a hoarder has a collection or a hoard of items that are, you know, objectively valuable, but are just excessive.
How does that fit into this criteria?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah but, but they’re, they’re still collecting or hoarding in a way that doesn’t, treats that actual value in a way that makes sense.
They’re not selling them off or, you know, whatever, making profit off of it.
Typically, we get piles of stuff that they think have more, much more value, than most people are going to think typically.
Interviewer: Yeah, that makes sense.
Interviewee: It looks like, at least a reasonable amount of time they’re not treating it the way I would expect people to rationally treat things in terms of their value.
Interviewer: So when you say rationally treat things in terms of their value, you mean, they might have a collection of objectively valuable items, but rather than, you know, selling them or displaying them, they just accumulate them.
Interviewee: They pile them in a corner somewhere.
Yeah.