So I'm going to read you, so there's a paper that I think NAME has published that deals with the concept of insight and breaks it down into different constructs.
And I’d just like to, you to think through these constructs in your clinical experience with your patients.
Just to see if you feel like each of these is pertinent for hoarding disorder.
If some are more important than others.
And again, the purpose of this discussion of insight is to try to better understand this major problem with how to get people into treatment.
So the constructs are defensiveness, so I'm being defensive of, of one's possessions, not wanting to give them up.
Anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive an illness or that something is wrong, or causing you distress and reducing quality of life, overvalued ideation, which is like when patients really believed that they, that the potential value of the item is above what it is, can range from like mild to more of a delusional kind of problem.
And then indifference, which is where patients simply don't care that they have a problem.
In your experience with people with hoarding disorder, do they, how do these different constructs breakdown in your patients?
Interviewee: Well, I think the anosognosia kind of thing is certainly a presentation that is not unusual, again, more often folks that are brought to treatment [INAUDIBLE ) seek it themselves.
I think overvalued ideation is certainly present in a lot of folks in terms of their valuing of items or their seeing the importance of keeping things, or having everything they need, or whatever, for all possible circumstances.
Let’s see, possessiveness, I have a problem with that conceptually, I think, what we typically label as possessiveness is almost a psychodynamic concept or behaviorist in my orientation.
Interviewer: Can you explain what you mean.
Interviewee: Excuse me?
Interviewer: Can you explain, can you just expand on that a little bit more.
I don’t, I’m not…
Interviewee: Yeah, well, when we talk about people being defensive, I think it’s really conceptualized as, ordinarily at least, and, conceptualized as somehow you’re approaching something that is unconscious sleep, triggering their distress or whatever, and that’s a conceptualization model that I don’t think makes much sense.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: Okay.
I think people act in what we call a defensive way when they see themselves as, or when they experience anxiety because of whatever it is that you’re doing or touching or saying.
Interviewer: So defensiveness is more of a behavior or reaction rather than a construct.
Interviewee: Yeah.