Interviewer: So, in the literature there’s been a breakdown of the concept of insight into kind of different constructs, and I’ll just read you the construct and I’d like to talk through with you if you think that these are good constructs, if you see some of them more than others, if you think that some of them are more salient at different times or different patients. So, one of them is defensiveness, one of them is anosognosia—total inability to perceive an illness or that something is wrong or causing a distress or reducing the quality of your life; one is overvalued ideation, the actual belief in the potential value of items, so more of a delusion sort of thing; one is indifference. I’ll go through the list again if that would be helpful.
Interviewee: That would be.
Interviewer: Defensiveness, so feeling the need to defend your behavior as a problem with insight; anosognosia, so not seeing it as an illness; overvalued ideation, or believing that, actually being more of a delusion that items are actually more valuable than they are; or being indifferent. So, in your experience, which of these insight-related issues is the most salient for patients with hoarding disorder? Which is the most important for you with patients with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: That’s a good question, I’ve definitely seen the first three in patients. I haven’t as much seen the last one but definitely the first three. Overvalued ideation is definitely something that comes up, I don’t know that I ever think about it in a delusion kind of sense because I think it’s not uncommon to have some sort of an attachment to an item that maybe someone close to you gave you, but maybe, like I said, it’s more or less the number of items they apply that same concept to. So, it’s like the concept itself isn’t bad but it’s just the way in which they apply it is almost like overkill. And then I’ve definitely seen a defensive style thinking about a patient who really didn’t think she had a problem got very defensive and it was causing these issues with her daughter, felt like it was her daughter’s problem not hers, and really at all didn’t not see her behavior as an illness or problematic despite the fact that she was living in pretty severe squalor as well.
Interviewer: And when you try to approach a patient who has low insight, what are some of the ways in which you help a patient to gain insight?
Interviewee: I guess sometimes I try to do, in my approach, kind of like alongside of reflecting back like you don’t see this as a problem so you can’t think of ways in which this isn’t the best for you. So, trying to get them to illicit that kind of change talk in how maybe it is impacting them. Also getting at like, “so what do you think are some of the reasons that this is causing a problem for yourself?” It’s just getting them to come up with these things on their own because they’re always told it’s a problem and that it’s wrong, but it’s not a conversation.