Interviewer: The last question I want to ask is also a hard question to answer and I just kind of want to hear you think through it.
Do you think that hoarding disorder and the things that kind of play into people’s acquisition and keeping things, do you think that there is an aspect to which cultural forces associating value and self-worth with consumption and material possessions and ownership, do you think that there’s any association between those two kinds of ideas in hoarding?
Interviewee: I think it would be hard for there not to be.
Yeah, I think there definitely is.
I mean I know hoarding can exist in the absence of these things and it’s something that’s been around for a really long time and doesn’t necessarily, I know that the early conceptualizations or theories about hoarding and its arising from not having a lot or being less fortunate has never INAUDIBLE in the literature but I can’t help but think that the culture and the ay that they live now and this idea of being able to readily consume things doesn’t feed into that or doesn’t exacerbate a problem that we have.
You know just think about attention deficit in children and how they’re like, there are a probably more things drawing their attention now than there would’ve been decades ago and how that maybe has influenced the course or the nature of the disorder and how we see it.
Interviewer: I guess kind of along those lines, have you seen instances in which either hoarding disorder—these days there’s a lot of talk about associating memories with items through souvenirs or through photographs.
I guess it’s not really a new thing but culturally there’s a lot of association with needing to save memories as physicals objects as opposed to just saving memories.
Do you think that that could have anything to do with the development of hoarding disorder, just because it seems like many hoarders talk about their possessions in terms of memory and forgetting?
Interviewee: Yeah, and what’s the question?
I’m sorry, I get where you’re going but what was the actual question?
Interviewer: Yeah, no, I guess I just wanted to talk about that or to see if you had any thoughts on that issue of if you had encountered that?
Interviewee: I definitely have, I mean thinking about Mardi Gras like I said earlier, almost like every memory she had of Mardi Gras would be erased if she got rid of all the cups or maybe all the cups but one.
She was very fearful that she would forget about that time, which I just found interesting.
Interviewer: And it’s interesting because it doesn’t sound like the cups were necessarily a reminder that the event existed, but more something in between, you know what I mean, more of like a physical acknowledgement.
Interviewee: Representation of that, yes.
Yeah, I also remember her not being able to get rid of any wrapping paper that had been given to her, like as a gift from a friend, she had saved every bit of wrapping paper, any gift that was given to her she had saved the wrapping paper that went around the gift even if the wrapping paper had been torn off and couldn’t be used again it because it was a reminder of that friend and the gift and almost like she wouldn’t remember the friend, or it would be a spite to the friend if she got rid of it, which was very interesting to me.