Interviewer: If you could think through for me—so we’re going to move onto the next set of questions. The next set of questions are kind of about the DSM-5 criteria and we’re going to go into a little bit more detail about the criteria themselves. It sounds like you’ve applied these criteria to patients or you have applied them with the intent of diagnosis. Are there particular elements of the criteria themselves that you think are particularly difficult to apply or that perhaps different clinicians might apply differently? Maybe things to do with the language? Or things that are related to clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Let me think about that for a second, that’s a good question. Obviously, I guess addressing impairment, for one, can be hard because the patients often times don’t acknowledge the impairment and don’t see it necessarily—which is really those that derive kind of joy or pleasure from their behaviors of acquiring and that sort of thing, and obviously find it negative to discard or find that to be distressing. So, I think the insight a little bit, like you kind of mentioned earlier, could be one issue with hoarding that is hard. I was surprised when the DSM came out that there was excessive acquisition as a specifier. This is my personal anecdotal evidence of treating patients and interviewing a lot of hoarders, but I have never personally come across anyone who did not have this acquiring problem or piece, and I’ve oftentimes wondered, diagnostically and from a research perspective, whether or not people who don’t have this acquiring piece if it’s really hoarding what we’re seeing or more like some sort of anhedonia or just general, kind of like [INAUDIBLE] as to why they’re not cleaning up. Because for most individuals with hoarding disorder, there is always an acquisition piece present, it’s not something that would just be a specifier, there is this kind of pleasure or joy that’s derived from buying things or collecting things or obtaining free things, and it would be hard for me to imagine an instance in which hoarding occurs without some sort of acquisition.