Interviewer: Yeah, I can understand that.
So, just to repeat back and make sure that I’ve got what you’re saying, it seems like there needs to be a piece that involves taking pleasure in items and in acquiring them and in having them, and not simply an inability to discard or clean up, that distinguishes the behaviors associated with hoarding disorder from the behaviors associated with, say somebody who’s badly depressed and who simply can’t get up and clean their house.
Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s sort of what I’m saying I mean I’ve definitely seen patients who have been depressed for a while, we actually just had a case recently where a guy came in, a veteran who denied hoarding—I’m going to talk freely about this I hope that that’s okay—it was a very fascinating case that they had asked me to consult on where he was essentially, I mean it was very clear that he was depressed and depression is seen as common INAUDIBLE diagnosis along with hoarding it’s pretty well established in the last couple of years despite what people think about OC it’s actually depression that’s more common, and for him he was very much clinically depressed and had been since deployment to the extent that he wasn’t even getting out of bed to use the bathroom he was actually just peeing in water bottles and throwing them on the floor so there became this question that given the nature of his home and how much filth and trash and INAUDIBLE there was, whether or not that was hoarding or whether or not it was something else, and I mean, technically he wasn’t discarding or parting with possessions and he denied having difficulties but yet he wasn’t doing it so there was this weird kind of like, “what is it?” and that’s an instance in which I’m feeling that the thing that separates hoarding from other disorders is the need to acquire and what that brings for you and to me he really wasn’t similar to the OC and other related disorders like that impulsivity.
So, without that piece there to me it’s not hoarding, although according to the DSM, excessive acquisition is actually a specifier but it’s not a requirement and so that’s been one thing that’s been somewhat hard for me to kind of wrap my head around.
Interviewer: That makes total sense.
Okay and now I’m going to read you a couple of the phrases from the criteria and I’d just like you to kind of talk through to me your thought process as you apply it to individual patients and I have some questions about them.
So, one of the things that we’re interested in hearing about is this phrase, “persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value.”
What we’re interested in is kind of how you determine actual value, like what makes a value judgement in a person with hoarding disorder inappropriate?
Is it like a monetary?
How do you determine if an emotional valuation is an inappropriate emotional valuation?
How do you determine if an aesthetic valuation is an inappropriate aesthetic valuation?