Interviewee: That’s a very good question. So, the question is, just to make sure I’m understanding, how do I determine?
Rebecca: Yeah, the criteria itself reads, “regardless of actual value” and so I guess I’m wondering when you talk to a patient with hoarding disorder, what is your criteria for determining their ability to value items? I mean, inappropriate valuation is…how do you see that in a patient? How do you determine if a patient is appropriately valuing items?
Interviewee: I guess sometimes it’s in the number of things that they evaluate as valuable. I think it’s clear that we all value certain things… an example would be, I don’t have a child but I imagine I my mother has saved some of my childhood things, but didn’t save every single thing. You know, it’s part of my childhood so it’s understanding that like there are certain things that you should save because they remind you of this time or this place but everything may not be necessarily needed or saved. 
Rebecca: Right, so this criterion which says, “difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of actual value” maybe more means that some things have more value than others? That’s what you’re looking for as a normal ability to value items? And not so much that they correctly value valuable items and throw away trash, you know what I mean?
Interviewee: Yeah that somethings have more—yeah that’s a good way to put it. Yes.
Rebecca: Okay, so the next one that I’d like to talk through with you is, “the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromise? And how do you determine, for example, if a person lives in a trailer vs if the person has the ability to have a very big house with two or three rooms for storage, how does that play into your ability to make a diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, that’s a really good question, one that I’ve thought about a lot. So, in terms of the number of “how this or that kind of thing”, I mean, to me, if someone can use—I guess for the intended use, my main problem there is “can you perform activity that have to do with living?” I think with geriatric patients, are you able to shower? Brush your teeth? Can you use your toilet? Are you able to have a bed that you can sleep in or a place that you can sleep? Can you heat up or fix yourself a meal in your home? So, I would say basic kinds of everyday needs like shelter, food, hygiene, clothing, that kind of stuff are the things that I’m looking for in terms of “intended use”. So, it’s less important to me if your house is cluttered and dusty if you can do those things. So, you can have a conflict with a spouse, for instance, that your house is extremely cluttered and yucky but if you can kind of use your house for all intended purposes that you would need it for, in terms of like being able to, like I said, sleep, eat, and shower and take care of those kinds of things, to me that certain criteria is not met unless you cannot do those things