Interviewer: Can you think of a specific case or an example of a patient where it was challenging to diagnose them, because it was on the border between pathological and non-pathological behavior?
Interviewee: Yes, actually I can.
I have a patient that I saw for a fair amount of time who definitely met for hoarding disorder in the sense that she had difficulty discarding or parting with some possessions.
She definitely had this perceived need to save things and had substantial acquiring habits where she was shocked and she wasn’t INAUDIBLE and so it was interesting to me to treat her because for her everything truly had some sort of value—it could be used in some sort of way, and she kind of looked at things in a different light than I probably do.
I would say that out of all the people that I’ve worked with, her home was probably, for the most part I mean, could be used completely like she could sit on her couch, they could use their kitchen, her and her husband, they could sleep on their bed.
They did have one or two rooms that were pretty sealed in terms of clutter with things she was like collecting her art stuff and things she would buy to potentially use in the future for art-related projects that she admitted that she would never likely start.
But for her the impairment was coming from the fact that it was causing significant problems with her and her husband, because one: she was spending money that they often times didn’t have, and two: he did not like the fact that some of the rooms were already cluttered to the point of non-use.
But she was definitely a little bit more I guess on the fence in terms of being as severe as other people I have seen but also still technically to some degree really meeting for the disorder based on self-report.
Interviewer: So, for you the way that you made that distinction was that you took the cue from her in terms of her self-report of impairment or her self-report of distress.
Interviewee: Yes, yeah for some part some impairment was very much self-reported in the sense that I did not know personally about her finances and never interacted with her or her husband in the room in a therapy session.
But those are things that she was reporting to me and being kind of the catalyst, you know the call for change or want to change with regard to the behavior.
Interviewer: And so, in terms of making the clinical distinction—even though it was kind of border line because she was self-reporting impairment—you went with her take on the situation.
Interviewee: Yes, I mean I knew, given what she was presenting with, that that was the kind of reel on what she would fit diagnostically and I often times think about how would I treat this patient without necessarily making a clinical decision about a disorder—particularly when it can be a little bit, you know, maybe differentially, diagnostically could be a differential diagnostic question.
I’ll think about what are the presenting symptoms, what are maybe the underlying factors and how would I treat them; so, for her it seemed like that would be the treatment that I would use.