Interviewer: Right.
So there's a resistance to the idea of discarding.
So this is a question that I think will be particularly interesting to ask you.
So can you think of cases, either a specific case or multiple specific cases, that was a challenge to decide or to diagnose clinically or in research because it was really right on that border between pathological and non-pathological behavior or some subclinical?
Did you everů?
Interviewee: Whatĺs the question exactly?
I understand the context, I was, whatĺs the question?
Interviewer: Yeah.
Just to have you talk through a specific case that was particularly difficult to decide whether or not it constituted hoarding disorder and how you ended up making the decision, of what, of what it was or what it wasn't.
Interviewee: Well, for example, we have cases where people have extremely full areas of the house, like a garage or basement or an attic.
And theyĺre, like, very emotional and resistant to help in the same way that I described.
But like, they have a fairly normal, maybe cluttered, but fairly normal living environment, or like most of the rooms that are fine, just cluttered.
So thereĺs like, distress in the family, thereĺs, like, stress and extra work times by the number of items.
Thereĺs obviously a problem with having too many, and having trouble letting go.
But itĺs not to a degree where anyone needs to, like, call the police.
Like, theyĺre like [INAUDIBLE ) managing because theyĺre separating, like, storage areas from living areas.
And so I wouldnĺt call that hoarding disorder, I would just call that like hoarding problem, letĺs say, or tendency.
Interviewer: So it really is a matter of how much of their spaces is used up.
And so for youŚ
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Śthe kind of more borderline cases are cases where much of the space is used up or a significant amount of space, but not all of it.
There's still some somehow balancing they're hoarding tendencies with the need to use their space normally.
Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: And what about cases that exist either concomitantly or are difficult to distinguish from other mental disorders such as like, a patient who is depressed, who is having trouble discarding or a patient who has Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and is having trouble discarding.
Do you find that those distinctions are difficult to make?
Interviewee: Not really.
I think that people commonly have hoarding with anxiety and depression and OCD.
So even though it can be considered its own thing, it is so often concurrent with these disorders that if they have the house full of junk, then I would just consider it hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Okay.
What about a case in which people are saving only particular kinds of items?
So their house is completely filled with like sports memorabilia or something like that, but not indiscriminate items?
Interviewee: Yeah.
I donĺt think I would call that hoarding disorder because itĺs so rare for someone with a particular proclivity to actually overfill the home to the point where they canĺt use it.
Like, itĺs just not normally the case like with hoarding disorder.
You know, itĺs like they say in one of the diagnosis quotes to the point of including things with little to no value.
And, so like, somebody who was a collector, even if itĺs a lot of stuff, and it takes up a lot of space.
I think it very rarely passes that threshold.