Interviewer: And kind of along the same lines, when you say substantially compromises the intended use of the space. So, it, you know, there are cases in which people might decide to use, for example, a guest room as a storage area or a bathroom as a storage area. So, or even a kitchen, you know, if they don't cook, they could store things in their kitchen conceivably. Do you feel like this is something that plays into the use of this criteria? Like how do you determine intended use or is it really not even a, not even a factor in the diagnosis? Is it pretty clear?
Interviewee: I don't think it matters what culture was assigned the use for that room, I just think it matters like, what you need to be doing on a daily basis is compromised. So like, have you don't have, you can't sleep on a bed because crammed with stuff and you can't watch TV, when you can't walk from this room to that room and you can't get to items in a room, like it's dependent on what like, normal living and movement required doesn't really matter what the room was assigned to them.
Interviewer: Okay. That makes sense. And kind of just as a follow up, so this is just kind of a speculative question, but in the same way that some people might really prefer to work in a, you know, like on a desk that's clear and that doesn't have any items out on it. Other people work on desks that are very cluttered and have papers everywhere. Do you feel like hoarding disorder could be some kind of variation in the amount of, the amount of clutter that one feels comfortable with or the amount of space that's taken up by things in a home? So…
Interviewee: I do think that’s a factor, yes.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: I think because of the fear element, having the item surrounding a person, it’s like literally a sense of security and they feel uncomfortable in empty areas or cleared out areas. So I definitely think that’s like a strong component.
Interviewer: So, when people with hoarding disorder prefer cluttered spaces aesthetically almost, they feel more comfortable in them.
Interviewee: And not even cluttered, but like literally fortress-like.
Interviewer: And you kind of already spoke to this last criteria that I was going to ask you about, about, distress. And you brought up the idea that sometimes patients don't have the insight to know that they're distressed or to have distress. So I'd like to turn the interview to talking about insight pretty briefly. So the literature surrounding hoarding disorder describes hoarders is having low insight. How would you define insight?
Interviewee: Being aware that you have a problem that is not typical and that would be better off un-needing it.
Interviewer: Sure.
Interviewee: It would be better for the individual, in themselves, if it were addressed.