Interviewer: So, yeah that’s a good transition. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about the DSM-5 criteria. So you mentioned the difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value. I'm wondering again, in these cases, you know, in some cases people are saving things that are clearly like trash, but how do you go about determining their actual value? So again, in a case where people are saving things that, you know, it could potentially have value or they are, you mentioned earlier in the free list, like collectors items. How do you decide if, how do you use that value criteria in the DSM-5 criteria?
Interviewee: Well, there’s a lot of objects in hoarding where, like you paid money for it, but then as a used item, it’s almost worthless. So, like a binder at Staples could be like 9.99, but if you try to sell it on EBay, you’ll probably get thirteen cents. Nobody would even buy it. So, like, there’s hundreds of those binders at the salvage mart because people have so many, they’re like super abundant. So, like, even though you bought something for money, doesn’t mean it has value once you’ve already bought it and used it, or even not used it. So, like, I think of it in terms of retail value. So, like, if you tried to, like, it’s like a market force, right? So, things that are little to no value, is, to me, in the eye of the market.
Interviewer: Okay. So literal—
Interviewee: So, if they wanted to sell it, would they get really money for it that would be the [INAUDIBLE] of lunch more than like, pocket change.
Interviewer: Again, I know that this is not a typical thing that you see, but would it be possible for somebody to hoard items that did have resale value? Like hypothetically, they filled their whole house and they have no usable space but they’ve filled it with, you know, like Picasso's or whatever and they can't move in their house and it's just stacked floor to ceiling. But the items that they're hoarding are actually objectively valuable.
Interviewee: I think that is extremely rare…
Interviewer: Sure.
Interviewee: … to think this, this extremely rare, it’s certainly not like, very typical case.
Interviewer: Okay. Okay, that makes sense.
Interviewee: Yeah. The only cases I can think of is when like, it would be in somebody’s, almost job or life’s work, to acquire and sell those items. Like if you’re the Picasso, and you have all these paintings, you might have a house full of paintings, right? Because you painted them and it’s your job to sell them. Or, if you’re a guy that fixes people’s stereos, you’d have like half used stereos all over your house, but it’s part of how you earn your living or your identity. So, it’s like, it’s sensible. I wouldn’t call that hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Even if it substantially compromises the intended use of the space?
Interviewee: Yeah, I would say [INAUDIBLE], like there’s some, like, magical case where it has no bearing on their life, and now, I just think it’s like so unlikely, I’ll just sign off.