Rebecca: Okay. Okay. And do you ever think that, perhaps there are cultural forces associating one sense of value and self worth with consumption or ownership of material possessions and that that plays into the development of hoarding disorder? So the idea that, you know, one is a more valuable or more worthy person when one owns more valuable things are one, one has nice things. Do you feel like that's a part of it?
Interviewee: Sure. Like, I mean I think like the American culture shifted after like the post industrialization and then they have all these things that culture promoted for people to have to be fancy like China and our collections of things and collectors items. And those were things that society really created a drive for that are, that’s just fairly like inherent to life and culture. And to some extent we're still living with that, but to that general, like, ethos we've added super abundance of goods. I think that is actually like the most compathic factor.
Rebecca: Okay. And what about the relationship between hoarding behaviors and memory? So you mentioned earlier that people with hoarding disorder will say that they are saving things so they don't forget an event. What do you think, what do you think is the relationship between the behavior and the sense of memory or what people think about memory?
Interviewee: I don’t think it’s as strong as other factors. I think that there can be things that are memorabilia that people keep. But that’s not, like, the majority of items when there’s like a problem. That’s probably like a majority. It might be like almost a majority of items than a regular person, but that's, true memorabilia is not going to create hoarding disorder because there's just not enough of those items. But, and somebody might keep things like paperwork and bills so that they could like look it up later if they need to. Or like coupons, like kind of paperwork stuff people hold onto. But again, I, or like an article, they want to remember to show someone. But again, I don't think that's like a majority of items or like just like the defining reasons.
Rebecca: Okay. So it might be a part of why people might say that they save things, but you don't think that, for example, people with hoarding disorders are more anxious about their memories or feel like they have poor memories or anything like that?
Interviewee: There was a research study that said they do think they have poor memories.
Rebecca: Okay. And, but in your experience, it’s not every patient.
Interviewee: I don’t think it’s like, a requisite necessary or sufficient.