Interviewer: Okay. So, kind of taking a step back from the DSM-5 criteria, when you think about the criteria overall, are there any elements of the criteria that you find particularly difficult to apply to patients or that you sometimes wonder that different clinicians might apply differently or that are more or less reliant on clinical judgment?
Interviewee: I think it’s weird for them to say that it has to include distress, to a point of distress, because the patients have so little insight and they’re so, like, self-justifying in their behavior. It’s usually the other people who are distressed, like the spouse or the children or the neighbors. It's usually not like the patient who's distressed, except for the fact that they're distressed, that everyone's bothering them about having this stuff. They're not usually distressed about this stuff itself as much as other people are distressed because of that.
Interviewer: I understand.
Interviewee: Which is a reason I think it's hard to treat because they don't show up at the clinic because they don't want help. They don’t want to have to get rid of their stuff, which is what you would want them to do if they showed up for help. So…
Interviewer: Right, so the problem with—
Interviewee: That’s what I think is weird.
Interviewer: —yeah, the problem with insight prevents them from being distressed unless, unless somebody is trying to take their stuff away essentially.
Interviewee: Right. Right, right.
Interviewer: So there's this part of the criteria where it says the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises intended use. And so the first part of this that I'm wondering is, it’s, from the conversation we've had so far, it sounds like to determine if someone has hoarding disorder, it really has to be obstructing their ability to use their home. And so I'm wondering, first of all, if somebody who, if there's a part of this that depends on how much they say have, so for instance, is it easier to be a hoarder if you live in a trailer as opposed to if you live in a huge house with multiple storage units? Is that a part of this distress resulting from accumulation in a space and not being able to use that space?
Interviewee: I would say no because I think people buy and still to the extent of the space and capacity for doing so. So like, it’s possible that somebody that has a small environment, has a lot of stuff. Like if you had one of those Manhattan or Japanese tiny apartments, you know, your bed and your books, and your backpack and your bike will all be, like, crammed in your space. And that wouldn’t be like free flowing to walk around, but it’s not full of quasi junk.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee: Like, that you should be getting rid of but refuse to, it’s filled with stuff like you actually need but you have trouble finding somewhere to put it. So like, if you lived in a trailer or small home you might have like, a bedroom or like an area that’s overfilled with all the random stuff you don’t know what to do with that a rich person would put in their basement or their huge garage or their huge attic. But it’s qualitatively distinct from somebody who has, like, piles of junk stacked high that they have to like, make it past through.