Interviewer: Okay. So that's our free listing section of the interview.
Now we're going to move into a more, kind of, free flowing conversational proportion.
And just to begin, I would like if you wouldn't mind for you to just give me a brief introduction of your background related to hoarding disorder, your education and how you are involved with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: A Ph.D. in Behavioral Analysis and my thesis was on hoarding in animal models, of the neural basis and evolution of hoarding in non-humans.
And, then I studied patients with brain damage in the hospital for my fellowship after Grad school, and we studied hoarding disorder in humans in the post doc.
And as a faculty I do research on hoarding disorder, but most of it is on individual differences in hoarding disorder, not clinical hoarding or clinical treatment, but individual differences.
Interviewer: What do you mean by individual differences?
Interviewee: People who are not clinically diagnosed who vary on the degree to which they express tendencies for hoarding.
Interviewer: Okay.
Okay, that makes sense.
That’s interesting.
Well good, then this will be a very interesting interview, I think.
The first part of the interview kind of examines that border between what constitutes hoarding disorder and what doesn't.
So the first question I have for you is what in your mind are the most important differences between something that might be considered normal saving behavior?
Or even on the extreme end of normal saving behavior, such as collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: I think it’s normal, and everyone, to some degree, saves things they think might be useful or memorabilia.
And I think it’s normal for people to have trouble discarding things.
It’s like a different difficult decision process, but I think you have hoarding disorder when you actually have a full environment.
Interviewer: Okay.
So the environment being full is what really distinguishes somebody who is just a saver who is not a clinical, not clinically diagnosed as hoarding disorder.
So the environment itself is what distinguishes it.
Interviewee: I would say for the most part, but I’d say someone with a clinical disorder is not receptive or malleable like, to intervention.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: So like, if it’s a person who has a hoarding tendency but they don’t have a disorder, if you went to their house and you tried to help them go through things, they can probably do it.
But then if you go to somebody with real hoarding disorder’s house and, you know, why wouldn’t you get rid of this and this and this?
Because, you know, you probably won’t use it.
When’s the last time you’ve used it?
I don’t think they’re, like, well, what’s the right word, receptive to that kind of thing.
Interviewer: Okay.
That makes sense.
Interviewee: They’re more resistant than a typical person.