Interviewer: When you see patients in your research, how much insight do they tend to have when you first see them?
Interviewee: I actually think, like the people I see, are not in the clinic, they’re coming for research, and they responded to an ad for pack rats or hoarders. So they know they self-identify as being one of those people. But I would say they, we intentionally use the word pack rat because we don’t want it to have like a value judgment, like you have a problem per se, more like there’s this quirky thing about you. I think they’ll agree to that. So they all know like, oh I have a lot of stuff and people think I'm weird and people think I have too much stuff and all that stuff, really good stuff. You know? I think they're aware of it to that extent. I don't think they're particularly aware of like any mental health concerns that might be feeding into their drive toward the goods. They just take it at face value that they like this stuff.
Interviewer: So it sounds like they may have pretty low insight, for the most part.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: So in the literature, there's this, there's this paper published by NAME  about the concept of insight, which broke the concept down into different constructs. So I'm going to read you the list of the constructs that he came up with and I'd like you to just talk through whether any of them seem more or less important in your experience. The first one is defensiveness. The second one is anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive an illness where that's something is wrong with your life. The third one is overvalued ideation. So believing in that the potential value of items is more than it is and it can be my mild or it can be delusional. And then the final one is indifference. So with your patients that you see in research, what, which if any of these concepts, or these constructs that go into insight is most important?
Interviewee: I’d say that I would agree with the existence of all of them. Can you just say the labels quickly one more time and I’ll pick a winner?
Interviewee: So defensiveness.
Interviewee: Defensiveness.
Interviewer: Anosognosia, so not being able to perceive your illness at all or that anything is wrong. Overvalued ideation, which is a persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items that can range from mild to delusional, or else indifference or you just don't, don't really care, if there is a problem.
Interviewee: I think that over-valuing is the winner, and defensiveness is a problem. You can’t address the overvaluation because of the defensiveness.
Interviewer: So they’re related in that way. So it sounds like for your patients with low insight, it is almost like a delusion when they look at their things, they see something different than what other people would see.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: So they look at the same pile of items and they, they see, you know, that it would be, they would estimate that it will be worth a thousand dollars, whereas, you know, you would estimate that it'd be worth nothing or smaller amount of money.
Interviewee: Right.