Interviewer: Right.
So, we talked a little bit earlier about the different reasons that people with hoarding disorder give for their behavior.
You know, we talked about the belief that it might be valuable, that they might need it later.
Do you feel that these justifications for hoarding behavior are post hoc reasons to justify what is essentially an underlying biological need or pathological need?
So, to rephrase that question, which comes first, you know, the explanation for saving or the saving, do people just save and then justify their behavior or are these reasons that they give really the reasons that they do it?
Interviewee: I think that’s a very difficult question to answer.
I don’t think there’s research telling us the answer one way or another.
But I do think that the core there’s like something in-between the two, which is like an instinct, an instinct to not release value but to hold on to something.
And the instinct can be given like fancier sounding explanations that sound more logical than just like an urge or instinct, but yeah.
I would say I’m voting for something in-between.
And if you make me pick, I’ll pick the biological first and then the explanation.
Interviewer: So, when you typically see patients for your research, what do they tell you about how long their behavior has been going on?
When did it start generally in the course of their life?
Interviewee: Sure.
My impression that there’s like signs of it early on, and especially in like adolescence and young adulthood, but it does not become a real problem until adulthood.
Interviewer: Okay.
And is your sense of why that I because the behavior itself worsens like a progressive disorder, or is it more related to social forces, ;ike having the ability to have your own house or becoming socially isolated?
Interviewee: I would say it has to be both.
Interviewer: Okay.
So both progressive and related to social process.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: What does it, do you find that there's a relationship between these behaviors and, so again, it's kind of a chicken and the egg or a causation problem.
Do people who are hoarders tend to be more isolated or, or do you think that it's more that their hoarding makes them isolated.
Interviewee: No, I think they start, they’re more isolated.
Interviewer: Okay.
So they’re more isolated to begin with.
Okay.
Interviewee: I think just like fear and anxiety, and then depression that feeds into hoarding disorder makes people, yeah, prefer to be alone and to protect themselves from others.