Interviewer: So, the criteria there is about difficulty discarding possessions that congest and clutter living areas that substantially compromise intended use, as you just talked about. And, again, I kind of want to push on that and say, for instance if a person has multiple guest bedrooms that they're not using as bedrooms but they're instead using as storage spaces, is that compromising intended use? I mean, a bedroom only had to be a bedroom according to the architect that built the house, the person who lives in it could use their bedroom for storage and I guess, you could even push that further and say they could also use a bathroom for storage, if they have a spare bathroom, or even a stovetop if they don't cook. So, how do you make that determination in terms of compromising intended use? Is it just safety? Is that where you draw the line?
Interviewee: No, I think it depends on the way the person wants to use the space. If the person has a 10 bedroom house, and 5 of these spare bedrooms are storage, the other five are usable as guest bedrooms and they only have three relatives that come and visit and there's not necessarily impairment, because they have enough bedrooms to meet their needs. If they have spare bedrooms but they're all--even if they have one spare bedroom but it doesn't function as a spare bedroom when they would like to have company over, then there's impairment.
Interviewer: Mhhm, okay I've got it. So, it really depends on how they want to use their space and if they want to use it for so-called intended use, the intent is the patient's intent in that criteria.
Interviewee: Well, and the family intent. If the person is living with other people, if it's stressing the family system or the other occupants of the home, then even if the patient is saying, "Now, we have two bathrooms but we only use one because I'm using my second one as my storage" and the other family member is saying, "This pisses us off cuz now everyone has to share one shower," then there's dysfunction and I would give that diagnosis.
Interviewer: Mhhm. And have you ever encountered something that you might call a boarder line or a subclinical case of hoarding problems or hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Sure, yeah, I think it's the tachometric studies that adjust it on a range of severity and you know, some people have a level of clutter that approaches compromising or somewhat compromises the living space but doesn't all the way make it unusable, so sure.
Interviewer: So, you have to make diagnostic decisions in those cases based on how compromised the living space is.
Interviewee: Yeah, it's probably a range of things. How compromised the living space is, how much distress there is, how much impairment there is, and there might be more moderate or mild levels of distress or impairment.