Rebecca: Um, so I guess you don't see the anosognosia. That's a question I ask because some clinicians will describe that like patients will look at their space and be clutter blind, that they'll be unable to see the space for what it really is, and that almost sounds like, maybe not a delusion maybe that's too strong, but that's like an inability to perceive the reality of their situation and I wonder if you see that at all with your patients, or if you see it as maybe less common that patients really can't see the clutter?
Interviewee: I think the it can happen, but being in treatment is like a selection bias, when someone is in treatment, and in particular if you're doing home visits with them because you're there is a novel, a new set of eyes, it makes them see it too. But I think when people aren not in treatment and they're sort of in their day to day lives, they don't see it. They don't pay attention to it or they purposely let it slide out of their mind of they're acclimated to it so much they you know, they just don't notice it. But I do think when you go to someone's house with them, then they notice it because they're paying attention. It's probably more that they're just not paying attention day to day because they're acclimated and it doesn't jump out at them because they're so used to it. So, I do think maybe they're onto something in the article, but the people who are coming to treatment, it's either a selection bias or something about the treatment that sort of breaks through that. 
Rebecca: Have you ever encountered in your practice an individual with animal hoarding?
Interviewee: I have not, no.
Rebecca: Okay. So, at what kind of stage of insight or how much insight do patients tend to have when you see them? So on your first visit with a patient, at what level of insight do they tend to be?
Interviewee: That's a good point, if they're having me come over, then they have sufficient insight to recognize that it's at least something that they want to involve a professional at. So, they have probably a little bit better insight than the folks who are not in treatment, so I would say they're insight is maybe moderate.
Rebecca: And what are some of the things that you talk about with patients or that you do with patients to help them to gain insight?
Interviewee: Um, I know there's like visualization exercises that we can do to like imagine things being different or ask them if the clutter wasn't an issue for them, what would their life look like to try to get at what the clutter is blocking them from, or what would be different if the clutter weren't there, to try to have something to move towards. I guess that's more motivation than insight. Insight might be more gained by sort of asking like, "Well what do other people tell you about this? Or what do other people say to you?" Things like that, or if the person is bizarre to other people, if the person is avoiding having people over, we ask them, "Why? What would someone else say?" Often people are embarrassed about having so much clutter, but the embarrassment comes from some part of them knows that it's not such a socially acceptable thing if they're embarrassed by it.