Rebecca: Um, I guess I want to return just for a second to this idea of space. Would it be possible in your mind for somebody to have hoarding problems but for those problems to be focused on digital media? So, somebody who saves PDFs of books the same way that somebody might save physical books, and all of their emails and have multiple hard drives where they're hoarding digital media? Would that fit criteria and how would you think about that in terms of the criteria?
Interviewee: Yeah, that's interesting. I've heard a little bit about this cyber hoarding or whatever, digital hoarding. I think there's a similarity in terms of like often there's a fear of making a mistake deleting something is similar to making a mistake throwing something away, but if I had to make a diagnosis I would probably make an OCD diagnosis, rather than a hoarding disorder diagnosis just because I feel like the physical clutter has to be present for hoarding. But I mean if there's both, if the person is digitally hoarding and they're physically hoarding, then maybe you could just go with a hoarding disorder diagnosis and not an OCD one. 
Rebecca: Okay, now I'd like to turn to a conversation that's about the problem with insight. So we have this last criteria of distress, which we talked about in terms of it being the distress that would accompany discarding. And I wonder if, when you encounter patients who have lower insight, if you ever have difficulty getting them to express that distress if they're so in denial about the fact that they have a problem. That they might say something like, "Oh no, I could throw this away any time and it wouldn't bother me," despite the fact that they don't do that and if that ever presents a problem for you?
Interviewee: Yeah, definitely people will say stuff like that, "I could get [INAUDIBLE 22:25] if I wanted to, I just don't want to." And so I think the sort of denial is a real thing and sort of like an alcoholic saying, "I could quit anytime I want." But, yeah, so I think [INAUDIBLE 22:49] there's people out there, folks with hoarding problems who would like the general idea, it would be nice if I had fewer things, I would be happier, I would be better able to have people over, I would have fewer arguments with family members, but when it comes down to picking a specific item, they lose the forrest for the trees because they're focused on that particular item and they forget that bigger picture.
Rebecca: So, they might think generally it would be better for me if I had fewer things and I would like to discard, but in the particular instance, that's when they experience the distress.
Interviewee: Exactly, yeah.
Rebecca: Mhmm, that makes sense. Um, so I kind of want to take a step back from the problem of insight and ask you first of all how you think about this concept in your practice. How would you define insight?
Interviewee: Recognizing that the saving behaviors are excessive, or that they're problematic. Yeah, something like that.