Interviewer: And do you have any sense for the patients you see clinically of that process of how they got to your office, or of what started them down the road of seeking treatment if it was, if it's primarily social family members or if there's kind of like a commonality if they decide to come see you?
Interviewee: Yeah, no , it's a range of different things, like some people have come to see me because of themselves, because this has been a problem or something that I've wanted to work on for a long time and for whatever reason now is the time.
But other people have come to see me because they're under threat of divorce, because someone is telling them that they need to do this.. this or me, type of thing.
Interviewer: Okay, so for kind of a conclusion of this interview I have some more speculative questions and I find that some people enjoy the process of speculation more than others, so if these sound like nonsense questions to you, that's fine.
The first one is, we talked earlier in the interview about the reasons that people give for saving, the reasons that they give for keeping things like, "This might be useful later" or "I'm worried that I'll need this," and when you think about hoarding as a disorder, do you think that these things are kind of driving the behavior?
So, they're really thinking, "I might need this" so they're saving it, or do you see hoarding as a behavior driven disorder in the sense of they have some underlying pathology that has caused them to want to save things, and then later after they've done the behavior, they've come up with a justification for that behavior sort of post-hoc?
Do you have any sense for that process or any kind of.. I know that that's maybe not a testable question, but I guess I'm asking you to speculate about how that works.
Interviewee: Um, that's a good question.
If I had to guess, I would say that when people are acquiring an item they have the thought, "Oh, this is nice," or "Oh, I could use this" and then they just save it.
And I don't necessarily know if they like intend to save it forever when they get it, but once something is yours, you kind of feel like you own it and then it hurts you to part with it.
So, I think it probably starts with the acquiring and the thoughts that the person has during the acquiring, and hen they're, you know they have a reason that they've got it and that's probably also the reason that they're saving it.
Interviewer: Mhhm, so something about the process of, like at the root of this disorder, something about the process of ownership or of making an object yours is what's driving this and that is the ... the thought behind it is really what's driving the disorder.
So, they really are believing in the moment that whatever it is is gonna be useful or is gonna be valuable, and then once they've got it they can't kind of part with that reason.
I don't know if that seems like a fair synopsis of what you just said.
Interviewee: Yeah, that makes sense.
I mean INAUDIBLE that sounds like a good mechanism is plausible.