Interviewer: So excessive in the sense of above the norm or different from normal, and also causing problems in your life.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think most people could recognize that they own more possessions than other people, so they would be insightful in that sense; but, where they might not be insightful is recognizing that this is a problematic number of possessions to have given the space you're living in.
Interviewer: So, there was this paper about insight that was a publication of Randy Frost where he broke the concept of insight into four different constructs for hoarding disorder specifically.
And the constructs are defensiveness, anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive an illness, overvalued ideation, believing that items are more valuable than they are, and indifference.
And I wonder if you feel like those resonate with your experience of insight and hoarding?
Or if there are some that are more important in your mind than others in patients who have lower insight?
I would read them again.
Interviewee: What was the first one?
Interviewer: Defensiveness, is the first one so being defensive about their items and wanting to make sure that people don't take them.
Anosognosia, or not being able to perceive that's an illness at all or that anything is wrong or causing them distress.
Overvalued ideation, which is when they believe that their objects are more valuable than they are, and that their behavior is rational because their objects are valuable.
And being indifferent to the state of their home and the state of their space.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think probably in terms of which is more important, I think the first and the last.
From what I've seen, there's not necessarily as much overvalued ideation in the sense that people really, like people will say, "I know I could live without this, but it's more that I just don't want to," which I think is probably a combination of...well the defensiveness is probably wanting to be in control and not wanting to be told what to do, and the indifference is kind of like, "Yeah the hoarding is bad, the stuff is there and it's sort of a problem and it's sort of not, or it doesn't bother me that much," kind of indifferent to it.