Interviewer: Yeah, and I mean, so this is a question that we ask clinicians during this interview every time, and I guess the kind of sticking point or the rub, the followup is that distress criteria.
So, if hoarders have low insight and they're not necessarily distressed by their own behavior, is somebody who's not experiencing what they would call distress, who prefers to keep their possessions rather than say, you know, have a social life, are they going to get the diagnosis of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, I mean, it doesn't necessarily, in my conceptualization of it the way I always try to make diagnosis is distress doesn't narrowly have to be experienced by the individual in the primary sense.
Could be secondary distress, that there's arguments about the primary hoarding problem, but the distress could come at the absence of socializing or impaired social functioning, that's still social impairment, even if it's not distress.
Someone who has schizoid personality disorder and no interpersonal relationships, they may not be bothered by not having personal relationships, but you would still say that their socializing is impaired.
Someone who's a psychopathic deviate is perhaps not distressed by it causing harm to other people, but they're stressing others.
Interviewer: So, when in the DSM-V criteria it says, "This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save items and to distress associated with discarding them, that criteria you applied meaning specifically they experience distress if they discard.
They might not be distressed about the presence of the items, but hypothetically discarding causes them distress?
Interviewee: Yeah, no, I mean many people are not distressed at all by the presence of the items, it would be just if they parted with the items or they maybe stressed by the arguments or the embarrassment that comes as a secondary result of the presence of the items.
Interviewer: Okay, I want to return to the idea of the space, and I'm wondering, is it just the amount of items that is what you're kind of looking for in addition to distress, or is it also an organizational issue?
So, if somebody had their house completely full of items but they were all very orderly and they knew exactly where they were, would that still meet criteria?
Interviewee: Um, yeah so I think it matters completely about how it's organized and you can't go based on the total number of items, but it's whether the space is still functional and whether there's any hazard.
If it is so many items that it's a fire hazard, even if it's organized, then you could still make the diagnosis I think.
But someone who just has narrow little passageways to get through very well organized stacks of paper, but the stacks of paper are likely to collapse onto the person or cause a fire hazard, I would still give the diagnosis.