Interviewer: And how about kind of the comorbidity or is there ever confusion between different diagnosis? So, how would you make a distinction between someone who has comorbid depression and OCD versus a primary diagnosis of OCD plus hoarding? Is that ever a difficult distinction for you to make or do you feel like that's usually pretty straight forward?
Interviewee: No, I think it is difficult, it can be quite difficult, particularly with hoarding behavior as a result of OCD versus a hoarding behavior that's a hoarding disorder. I think in hoarding behavior that relates to OCD, it often goes along with some of the more cardinal features of OCD, like superstitious fears that if I throw this away and it was a possession of a friend of mine, that that friend will die in a car accident, or saving items because you need to decontaminate them before you part with them or something like that. And usually with OCD, there's a range of OCD behaviors and hoarding might just be one of them; whereas primary hoarding doesn't necessarily have a range of features and primary hoarding often the insight is lower and primary OCD often the insight's better. But it can be hard, and then obviously there are people who you know, live in clutter but not because they have difficulty discarding but because they're experiencing dementia or depression or something that makes it difficult for them to expend energy cleaning, but I wouldn't say that they have hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the first step for making the diagnosis is to look at the person's space and how their space is impairing their behavior, but then there's a second step that's kind of trying to figure out the root cause of that space and whether that space is driven by OCD-related thoughts, driven by depression or dementia, or driven by kind of a need to save that's a hoarding kind of need. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, that sounds right. Yeah, it's the function of the saving, is it hoarding related or is it something else?
Interviewer: So, now I'd like to talk just for another second about the DNS-V criteria. So, when you're applying these criteria, are there any elements of them that you regard as particularly difficult to apply or that you've thought that maybe different clinicians might apply differently? Either things to do with the language or the use of clinical judgment?
Interviewee: Um, I mean I think it's relatively straight forward. I don't know, I don't necessarily for every person I see, I don't necessarily sit down and do the skid with them to tick them off, I kind of feel like it's sort of [INAUDIBLE] and you get like a gut sense that it's a hoarding problem. But I don't think there's anything about the--I think the criteria are way better than prior to DSM-V, which is a useful diagnosis.
Interviewer: And when you sit down with patients, do you have them bring picture of their space or do they describe their space?
Interviewee: Yeah, I do, I try to do home visits when possible so I can see it, but if not, then yes. Or I'll show them the clutter image rating so they can pick, but it is most helpful to just see their space. You know, most people can do that, just take a picture on their phone and show it to me.