Interviewer: So, we're gonna talk more about that as we go through the interview. Those are all the listing prompts that I have for you and I'd kind of like to dive into the more free form portion one. The way that I like to start out is have you talk through from your perspective as a clinician, what are the biggest and most important differences that in your mind distinguish people with hoarding problems form normal saving behavior, maybe perhaps extreme collecting, and this disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, so it's interesting that part of it really kind of depends upon the space that the person is living in and the number of possessions. Like, some people may tend to hang onto things and have a cluttered garage or something like that, but it really becomes a hoarding problem when the number of possessions just vastly takes over the spaces. But in a funny way, someone who lives in a suburban mansion can have an equal number of possessions as someone and not have a hoarding problem as compared to someone who really has a hoarding problem because they live in a small apartment with a high number of possessions.
Interviewer: That's actually something I was gonna ask you about later in the interview. So, if you have two patients, one of whom has a lot of control over their space, has like you said a suburban mansion with many many many rooms and perhaps the capacity to buy multiple storage units, and you have another patient who's living in a very small apartment or a trailer and they're exhibiting the same behavior, like let's say for the sake of argument, literally the same behavior, they have the same number of items, one of their spaces is going to be extremely congested and the other one, you might not see the items at all. So, do they both have hoarding problems? Are they both going to get the diagnosis? Is neither of them? It's kind of a question.
Interviewee: No, so I wouldn't make the hoarding diagnosis unless there's impairment, and impairment would come from the lack of functionality of the space or the distress level. Like if somebody lives in that mansion and they have a ton of possessions and it doesn't clutter any rooms, really because there's so many rooms, and it doesn't bother them that they have so many possessions, I would not diagnose them with hoarding disorder.