Rebecca: Um, like I said, that's kind of a speculative question, that's not really a testable one. So, as I'm sure you're aware in the literature, hoarding disorder is described as something that primarily occurs in elderly people but there's more and more research about how it emerges over the course of a person's life, and from your clinical experience, do you have any sense of how the disorder develops? You know like, how long it's been going on before people come to see you, if people talk about it being something in their life their whole life or something that has only developed recently?
Interviewee: I think most people I see have a tendency to hang onto things, it has been there for like a long long time. So, starting more in like adolescence, but the switch getting flipped into like a real hoarding problem happens later, you know often it's like a gradual accumulation and then there could be some sort of life change that happens that makes things a lot worse or brings the problem up. Like if a person goes through a loss of a loved one, a spouse, a divorce, something like that, where if that other person had been sort of decluttering or keeping things at bay, and they're not there anymore then things can like take off a lot more.
Rebecca: So, that's kind of my next question, is your sense of that progression that it is, for example, related to trauma or neurocognitive decline over the life course, or it it more social in the sense that people who are older tend to be isolated and also to have had more time to accumulate items, and perhaps inherit them from parents dying and things like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it's one of the second ones, I don't think it's necessarily like a neuro, I mean I'm not a brain scientist, but I don't think it's necessarily like a neurological degenerative disease. I think it's more that as your life goes on you get more stuff, and you gradually accumulate more and when people pass away, you also accumulate all their stuff. So, I think it's more probably social factors than biological ones.
Rebecca: Um, well I really appreciate your time, that's all the questions I have for you, we went through them pretty quickly so I'm glad that I can give you back some of your time, which you have so nicely dedicated to doing this research with us so thank you.