Rebecca: It is an interesting facet of hoarding disorder that someone can have the same neurobiology and have the same thoughts and even the same behaviors but, because of their kind of socioeconomic status, just not have a disorder. It's been difficult for me to think of another disorder like that, where you just won't be diagnosed with it. So, I don't know 
Interviewee: Actually, well, I'm gonna just put out there, if you think about it for a moment, mild ADHD in people who have moved into creative professions, where they're required and praised for their ingenuity and innovativeness and creativity, I've seen a few individuals throughout the years who have told me that if they didn't have their inattentiveness, that they think it would be more difficult for them to come up with some of those ideas. You know, they're not quite the same, but there's a bit of that. I think people with bipolar disorder, where the manias are mostly cyclic mood disorders where they have hypomanias or have has few manias but long periods of hypomania, who would tell me they don't want to go on mood stabilizers because they work in a creative area, such as writing, and they worry it would impact their ability to come up with their ideas. 
Rebecca: I mean, I guess that the--
Interviewee: A few examples of that, that I don't think are as clear cut as the hoarding one,
Rebecca: Sure, and I guess the other difficulty with hoarding disorder is that distress criteria. So, this person is not meeting distress criteria, because objectively speaking, his home is not compromised. But many hoarders don't endorse distress because they have such as low insight into their behavior. And so that's sort of the--
Interviewee: Right, and then I look at the behavior. I mean, that's where I think, because we have the impairment or inability to maintain safety for yourself or others, it's not perfect, and you're absolutely right, I hadn't given that enough thought when you asked about problems with the criteria, but typically in those situations we'll say there's some concern, they deny that it's a problem. I have a lady like that with OCD and hoarding, she's been evicted 5 times, she generally over the years has denied that her hoarding is a big problem it just angers others around her. But objectively, there would certainly be a fire hazard and a times, she'd have vermin, so, right? I think the criteria aren't bad as an effort to try and get at that and give us enough venue.