Rebecca: So I guess what I'm imagining here is somebody who's space is just really, you know, over cluttered. Like the example you gave where there's rodents, they're being evicted, and they look at their space and they say, "This looks fine to me, this looks like a normal home" and I guess I'm wondering is is that because they're in denial about it? Or is that because they truly are looking at something and seeing something different than reality?
Interviewee: So I think there is this perceptual problem, the anosognosia, which could also be termed in a milder form as clutter blindness, right? And so I see that all the time in some of my people with hoarding where they really don't see it registering the same way others would and I find photos very useful in that regard, because sometimes they'll take photos and bring them in to show me, and when we look at the photos together they together will say, "That looks a lot worse than I realized, I see what you're seeing and I hadn't looked at it that way." That part of it really fits, and so many overvalued ideations I see all the time, but to call them truly delusional as a psychiatrist, I'm trying to think whether I've seen anybody.
Rebecca: I guess part of the reason I'm curious is because I've also been talking to people about animal hoarding, and people who talk about animal hoarding are very comfortable, or some of them are anyway,
Interviewee: I'm sorry, yes, yes let me take that back. One case I've seen, who was an animal hoarder who I thought was frankly delusional, you're right. But he didn't have any other feature of hoarding, he actually had severe OCD and some [INAUDIBLE 44:55] issues. But, I did believe he was delusional.
Rebecca: It's interesting, so I've been talking to people more and more because in some ways it seems so related to object hoarding, but in other ways it's quite quite different and I think that that's maybe the sense that I'm getting from talking to experts is that they're very hesitant to say that hoarders are truly delusional, but with animal hoarding it appears to be more of a real problem perceiving the reality of the situation. How do you think about the relationship between those two disorders yourself?
Interviewee: So, I haven't been presented with a significant number of cases of serious animal hoarding, maybe less than in the fingers of one hand, and I don't know whether that's just related to the setting in which I work and the type of patients that get referred to me.