Interviewer: So it sound like the biggest difference in your mind that there are kind of maybe, it sound like from what you just said maybe two main differences. One is that the items themselves are so excessive and exist in a disordered state that they can really impair the person's ability to function; while in a collection, you wouldn't expect such excessive acquisition and they would be more organized and it wouldn't impair function. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, and displayed suitably, maintained, controlled, yeah. Without the difficulty discarding, generally speaking, that we see in hoarders. So in hoarders, I look for a pervasive difficulty discarding, saving of everything, it's not thematically connected, it's not necessarily a collection at all, it has nothing to do with collecting, often the presence of insight, the recognition that it's excessive themselves but not always.
Interviewer: Could you have a person with hoarding disorder who hoards particular items? So, somebody who fills their home completely with cuckoo clocks or clown memorabilia. So, I guess what I'm getting at is is the non-discriminant aspect a key, or is it possible to have a patient with hoarding disorder who is discriminating to come extent, along the lines of the ways that a collector might?
Interviewee: I guess I've seen some who have that, I mean usually all hoarders gravitate to certain kinds of material. So, if it's newspaper I don't think most people would think of it as collecting, but I've also seen hoarders who's collection, one guy for example, who collected model cars. But, again, his accumulation of cars was excessive, he had multiples of cars, they had overtaken his home to the point that he could not live in it appropriately, could not have people over, was worried about it being a fire hazard and getting inspected, he identified himself as unable to discard things or part with things. And so, even though there was a thematic connection, and some qualities in common with a collector, it went way beyond.
Interviewer: Can you think of ever encountering a case or cases that was really on the borderline and was challenging to diagnose for that reason, where you were really unsure if it was hoarding disorder or not?
Interviewee: hoarding vs. collecting? No.
Interviewer: Hoarding versus collecting, no never?
Interviewee: No, I don't think so actually.
Interviewer: How about on the boarder between hoarding and an alternative diagnosis, such as OCD or depression? Do you find that distinction to be difficult to make sometimes clinically?
Interviewee: Generally not, generally not. I certainly will see a lot of hoarding disorder that is comorbid and exasperated by OCD, and I will see people with OCD who accumulate because of their OCD where I don't think it's hoarding, so I certainly see all the gray zones in there. I don't find that one causes me a whole lot of difficulty, generally speaking.