Interviewer: Okay, so now I'd like to talk through the DSM-V criteria pretty briefly. Are there any aspects of the DSM-V criteria that you find particularly difficult to apply or that you have thought that different clinicians may apply differently? Either things to do with the language or related to clinical judgement?
Interviewee: Um, for the most part I feel like criteria works pretty well, actually. I've questioned, in the early days I was strongly influenced by [NAME] and [NAME], thinking about acquiring as a core feature and wondered if it shouldn't be up there as a diagnostic feature, but over the years I've seen so many who don't endorse it as an active part, that if it were a requirement for diagnosis, it would have to be an option, right, it would have to be not absolutely required. So, I think that's actually fair, that's been a change in my thinking over the years. I sometimes think the language around the urge to save things is just a little bit, maybe just a little bit awkward potentially, because I think when I meet with individuals, you know it just says difficulty discarding regardless of the actual--the need to save due to distress associated with discarding. I think that's part of it, but for many of them it's also the strong urge to keep things. And sometimes I will meet people who say, "It's not that I can't discard them, I just feel the need to keep everything cuz I might want it or need it." So, sometimes the way that the criteria is phrased sometimes seems like a slightly awkward fit to me for that reason.
Interviewer: Mhhm, so one of the criteria discussed kind of difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of actual value, and I'm wondering if you ever think of the value of items as part of your kind of process. Do you have to have value, does the objective value of the item play into it? So, could someone, for instance, hypothetically hoard extremely valuable items? There was a, for instance as an example, a case of an art collector who's house was completely filled and absolutely unorganized and unmanageable, but all of the objects were, you know, priceless art artifacts or paintings and sculptures. So is the value of the items a part of your use of that diagnostic criteria?
Interviewee: No, not really. No, I wouldn't say that if they were living in a disorganized state, identified having more stuff than space to keep it, and it was compromising their pleasure and ability to live normally in their home, even if it's all objectively value, but I would still see it as hoarding.