Interviewer: So, there was this paper published by Randy Frost where he talks about the concept of insight, and he in the paper broke it down into different constructs, and I'd like to read you these constructs and have you think with me through which in your mind are the most important or how you see them related to each other. So the constructs that randy came up with are defensiveness, anosognosia or the lack of ability to perceive your illness, overvalued ideation, so that would be more of a persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items, or indifference. Um, and I'm wondering how you see these fitting together in people's insight. So, these are interesting to me because they are so varied. So, overvalued ideation or anosognosia even, sound almost more like a delusional disorder where you're looking at an item and you have an unreasonable belief that the item is more valuable than it is, or you're looking at your space and you think that your space looks normal, even though is objectively, you know no one with objectivity would see it as normal. Whereas defensiveness is much more based on behavior and indifference also is very behavioral and seems sort of like related to depression and just not caring about space. So, I guess what I'm getting at with this question is how do you think about these and do you see them all as equally relevant or do you feel like some are more central to insight as you understand it in hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: So, I have to confess I have not given this any thought before and I haven't seen that paper, so this is the first I'm hearing about this model for insight or the different aspects of insight, but I think it's really interesting and kind of a-- what was the first one again?
Interviewer: Defensiveness
Interviewee: I guess I'm just not quite sure about defensiveness fitting with the others.
Interviewer: Okay, how so?
Interviewee: Well I kind of, so the others are like core features of their... would define why they don't have insight. Whereas defensiveness is more of a reaction to some insight, and not wishing to acknowledge a problem. So in a way defensiveness almost implies some degree on insight.
Interviewer: Mhhm, in order to be defensive you have to know that there's something to defend.
Interviewee: Exactly, so don't know that I would agree with defensiveness being one of the constructs. But the other three sound really good and right on to me, actually, and very much map onto my experience.
Interviewer: So, do you see a degree of, I mean I don't want to overstate it, but something along the lines of a delusion with hoarding patients? Do you think that when they look at items they are literally delusional at times in terms of their beliefs?
Interviewee: I've seen, I have not, I know that it's described, I have not really seen people. I'm trying to think if I have seen people who I thought were clearly at the delusional rather than poor or almost absent insight. I don't think I've actually seen anybody where I've termed it delusional.