Interviewer: So, one of the criteria that clinicians have talked about in different ways is the one that says that the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas, and substantially compromises their intended use. So, I guess the question that this criteria begs for me is different people live in difference spaces, you know, if you are living in a trailer you have very little space and you require very few items to congest and compromise it, whereas if you are extremely wealthy and can afford six storage units and have a huge house, you may never reach the point where your living area is substantially compromised. And I'm wondering how you think about that when you go through the process of using this criteria?
Interviewee: I think it can be a conundrum and it can cloud and potentially lead to under diagnose of those who are in the wealthier economic strata. But, on the other hand, when I've met individuals like that who have the luxury of lots of space, they're typically also not distressed by the problem because they have enough space that they can still live very well in the space they have. And so, from the perspective of distress or impairment, they won't meet either. So, if I may I can give you one very straight forward example like that, who's an individual I've seen on and off for years for OCD who is from a very wealthy family. He lives alone in a 5 bedroom home, and has essentially a butler to assist him. He buys about 30 bespoke suits a year even though he doesn't have more than a few occasions a year to wear them, and he has accumulated all the old ones, not to mention other types of items of clothing, such that in his five bedroom home, he sleeps in one bedroom, has one room that's a guest room, and the other three are closet space.
Interviewer: Wow
Interviewee: Right? He is not distressed by it, he objectively recognizes that he accumulates too much, and he would say that he has trouble parting with the old ones and he sees that it's excessive, the acquiring of them, but it doesn't really distress him in any meaningful way, it doesn't impair him. He has the ability to function beautifully in his house and has people over all the time, his butler helps him keep his clothing collection organized, there's no hardship. From a neurobiological perspective, I think he's somebody who in a research study if our criteria didn't exclude him, would probably show the same neurobiological issues but don't think that clinically he's at threshold, because of his material wealth and ability to live comfortably.