Rebecca: And when you're telling between them, it seems like what you're saying is it goes back to the root cause of the behavior. That OCD can cause accumulation of items similar to hoarding disorder, but still be driven by OCD motivations.
Interviewee: Absolutely, so people with, I have numerous in my practice, with contamination concerns who can't touch things they're brought in the house because of cleanliness versus dirtiness and they need to do washing rituals and end up avoiding handling things and end up avoiding discarding for that reason. I have individuals with fears of something incriminating being on any paper material, and so they have to check it, or being worried about throwing out something valuable getting mixed in with the items they want to discard, so the checking rituals become prohibitory difficult. You know, somebody with obsessions around personal information and identity theft, who looks to all intensive purposes superficially like a hoarder because he accumulates everything that comes in the door, but it's really about his concern around identity theft and his having to check it meticulously to make sure he didn't somehow get a piece of mail mixed up with it or something that has his phone number or credit card number or any other information on it. So, I've seen a broad variety of cases like that, but I think usually when you explore the motivation for the difficulty around the discarding, I feel clinically myself that it's not all that difficult to tease apart. 
Rebecca: Have you ever encountered a case of sub-clinical hoarding?
Interviewee: Many.
Rebecca: And what does that look like?
Interviewee: Um, people who will comment to me that they feel they have a bit of excessive accumulation, they may themselves note that they have a bit of difficulty discarding, it's hard for them to do it, they feel a sense of reluctance to part with things, but they'll tell me, you know, eventually they get to it or they've build up a safety network with a family member checking in with them ever 3 months, if they themselves have difficulty, to kind of help them work through it so that they say when we discuss the condition of their home, that their accumulation of material does not in any way impact on their ability to live the way they want to live in their home or use the space suitably, not in a significant way. 
Rebecca: So, it's subclinical in that case, even though they have the impulse, they're able to kind of keep it in check and manage their space.
Interviewee: With difficulty often, yeah that would be the kind of, profile in my mind of a subclinical hoarder.