Rebecca: Another area that I've thought about is this substantially compromises intended use. So, in the example of the patient that you gave, he has five bedrooms and 3 of which are closets, which is not their intended use, and I guess, who, how do you decide where it crosses the line for intended use? I mean, someone may store stuff in a bathtub and say, "I don't take baths, I'll shower at the gym." Someone may store stuff on the stove and say, "Well I don't ever cook and I don't know how to cook, so it makes sense for me to use my stove as a storage space." I guess what I'm saying is, is there a line with that intended use aspect of the criteria, or is it all kind of about functional status and safety?
Interviewee: That's a really good one, Rebecca. I think it comes down mostly to the distress and functional status and safety. Because, like in the example of my patient, who says the bedroom is a sleeping place? I mean he has a very large home, it's about 4,000 square feet, so just because the builder defined it as bedrooms, doesn't to me mean that they're not useful for their intended use. 
Rebecca: Mhhm, yeah that's kind of what I was getting at is you know, if it's your space, if that's your home,
Interviewee: It defines it accordingly, but and it--so your interesting one is what if it covers the stovetop but the person says, "I never cook, I never have cooked, I never wish to cook." So, I think if somebody told me that, they've never cooked, they've never fried, they don't own frying pans, they don't have any desire to learn to fry an egg or to put up boiling water on a stovetop, so for them it is not a concern or a problem in any way, shape or form, then I would be hard pressed to find hoarding or clutter that's excessive simply based on that stovetop example. However, it's rarely in isolation. It's going to impact multiple areas of the home, and I would suspect there would be other areas where it's much more clearcut. But, I think you're right, it will be colored by their insight and justification. So, the hoarders I see, when I ask where they sleep who say they sleep on their comfy chair but they prefer it to their bed, they think they sleep better upright, so they don't want to sleep in their bed anyway, where you're right, I'm opposing my own judgment. I'm saying I think that's getting in the way of its intended use.