Interviewer: I think it's because animal hoarding is even worse than object hoarding in terms of people ever seeking treatment or staying in treatment.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, so I just haven't had them, so it's a really really interesting question. Um, but that one case who comes clearly to my mind was somebody where I realized after time that only when frankly, anyway there's a number of complications in his case that make it even more interesting and complicated, but I ended up coming to the decision that he had, I called him a delusional disorder and it was with regard to the animals because he describes himself as safe keeping them and taking care of these animals that would otherwise be destroyed eventually, and when I next had contact was after there had been a home inspection and housing authorities and SPCA etcetera had gotten involved, and they reported animals in his home that had died and in deplorable conditions. And even so, when I met him he maintained in a way that I found seemed totally believable and frankly delusional that he was taking good care of them.
Interviewer: Yeah, that seems to be a pretty common experience with animal hoarders and I've gotten really curious about the relationship between the two disorders because behaviorally, and kind of conceptually, it makes sense that they would be related and both related to OCD, but there seems to be something about animal hoarding that crosses lines that object hoarding just doesn't seem to cross. And, this wasn't, I don't think this was actually on your list but sometimes clinicians will talk about their patients with hoarding disorder who kind of over-identify with objects or over-empathize with objects of have some emotional connections with objects
Interviewee: Oh yeah, absolutely I've seen that one, I missed it. An individual of mine who sees objects as having feelings and the ways she treats it is core to the difficulty discarding, because if you treat anything with disrespect and make it feel like its unwanted would be hurting it, yeah.
Interviewer: And I'm wondering almost if animal hoarding is maybe an extension of that aspect of object hoarding, where animals are, they kind of over-empathize with them are they are so concerned about harm to them that they, I don't know I'm still working on it, that might be a future direction but I wanted to get your ideas. I have a couple of closing questions, so I don't want to keep you longer than you have though, so if you need to go just let me know.
Interviewee: I have 5 minutes, okay, but then I do have to wrap up.
Interviewer: Yeah, absolutely. So, this is a hard one, but we talked about the reasons that people give for their hoarding behavior, and I'm wondering if you think that these are the real reasons that they're saving, the reasons that they give, or are these reasons post-hoc justifications for an underlying biological need, which they will do and then they'll kind of retrospectively justify them cognitively?
Interviewee: I don't know how you would test that model.
Interviewer: Yeah, I guess it's just a speculative question it's not a testable one.
Interviewee: I'm trying to see offhand a way that you would do a study which would enable you to discriminate that. If I say then give that as the reason, and they seem to believe that, even if it's post hoc, how are we going to distinguish that?