Interviewer: Okay, so now we're gonna move onto the open-ended part of this interview. So just to begin, if you wouldn't mind setting the stage for me by briefly telling me your background related to hoarding disorder, your educational background, and whether you are a clinician who sees patients of a researcher or both.
Interviewee: So I'm an MD psychiatrist, I'm a clinician investigator. I've been working in the area of OCD since doing a fellowship in 1992 and in practice since 1992. I'm an academic who does research primarily on neurobiology, mainly genetics, of OCD and spectrum disorders, as well as developmental treatments and improving outcomes with treatment. My experience is primarily in OCD for the first 10-15 years of my career, and then gradually more inclusively to focus as well on OCD-related disorders. So, for the last 15 years or so, clinically working more with hoarding disorder, trichotillomania, and skin-picking disorder. I developed, I ran, I started running group protocols for CBT for hoarding and so I see individual cases for psychopharmacology and to some extent, for some individuals CBT typically limited by time constraints. I started running CBT groups for hoarding disorder about 10 years ago now, probably run about 8-10 CBT groups, began working on... I did training with [NAME] about 8 years ago. Let me think... limited research, trying to develop community initiatives to work with our community agency so that they would be more informed in the cluttering aspects that they had going by a CBT model, I've done extensive teaching in the community, I've co-organized or organized about 7 to 8 hoarding conferences, and about 8 OCD conferences in which we usually have a hoarding sub focus with seminars or workshops on hoarding. I've been consulted by a number of local, well Ontario actually, widely community groups, coalitions that they form, um, yeah, currently running more of a hurried treasure professionally lead, morphed model of group therapy for our clients here for our patients here.
Interviewer: Okay, thank you for that. Um, so it sounds like you have a very broad experience, both with individual patients, with research, and with working with communities. So, for the first part of our interview, we're trying to focus on how you conceive of hoarding as a disorder, how you diagnose it, how you know it when you see it. And then we're going to move to the discussion of insight, and the purpose of this process is to understand how clinicians are looking at hoarding disorder, and then to talk to patients about how they identify the disorder in themselves and the purpose of that is to help understand the patient process of gaining insight. So, for you as a clinician, what are some of the most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: So the excessive accumulation of material to the point that it impairs their ability to function. It's not organized as in a collection, it's not useful as in a collection, it takes over and impairs their ability to function. People with hoarding disorder typically are distressed by it, unlike collectors, and describe difficulty discarding, which collectors will not except perhaps in relation to the enlargement of their collection and material that may be a little peripheral to it. Excessive acquiring of items.