Rebecca: And that's a difficult distinction, I mean, there are clinicians and researchers who think of hoarding disorder as a way of kind of making the space more conformable, so who kind of conceive of it as people who like to be surrounded by items, who feel safer and more at home when they are kind of closed in a little bit, and so I guess what that kind of gets at is at what point are we saying that people's homes, that they can't kind of manage their own space in a way that feels good to them? And making that distinction I guess can be difficult unless it's a very clear kind of safety and health hazard. 
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. I don't have a clear answer, I guess. It does come down to like a [INAUDIBLE 34:35] judgment on my part sometimes about whether it's getting in the way of their ability to function and their intended use. You're right, there can be gray zones.
Rebecca: And, I guess, the next part of the interview, this leads into it quite nicely because the last part of the DSM-V that I'd like to discuss with you is about distress and then talking about insight. So, um, one really interesting thing that I've encountered in these interviews is the way that different clinicians think about this distress associated with discarding. So, some people kind of apply this criteria to mean they are distressed by their behavior, their behavior distresses them and they recognize that their life is impaired, and other people say "No, actually that's not required at all, that's not what's meant by distress, what's meant is that they would hypothetically experience distress if they were discarding. So there is no actual distress in the disorder itself, when they keep their items they're fine, but if you try to make them throw it away, that's when they would experience distress and that's what the criteria is getting at. So, I'm wondering how you apply that distress criteria?
Interviewee: I usually interpret it as, I totally agree with the second group, that there are hoarders who don't have distress except when they're forces to discard, and if they've been successfully avoiding it for enough time, it's not a problem. But then the way that I apply the criteria is that they don't meet distress, but I will look for impairment instead. The way I am looking for distress to use the diagnostic criteria is distress at the problem, distress at the way they're living, or distress of the way it's bringing them into conflict with others or the impact on their finances from their excessive acquiring. But, distressed at some aspect of the problem, which absolutely correctly you're pointing out will only be there if there is some degree of insight.
Rebecca: So, let's talk about insight, one thing that I ask clinicians is to tell me how they would define insight in the case of hoarding. What does insight mean?
Interviewee: I think insight typically here means the recognition of the excessive feature of their accumulated belongings. And the recognition that it is getting in the way of their being able to live the kind of ritual filling life they would otherwise like to lead.
Rebecca: So insight for you involves recognition that their behavior is impairing. So, distress is a key feature of insight for you. 
Interviewee: Distress is more related to insight, yeah.