Rebecca: Yes.
Interviewee: Because for people who hoard, I see that as being similar to anorexia, bulimia, alcohol use disorder. There are a few disorders like that where the person might not be distressed, but an outside person can see there's obvious impairment here. It might be true even for attention problems, like attention deficit problems, so for the person who actually has hoarding disorder and they're saying, "I'm not distressed", that to me, because the criteria really is distress or impairment, and you can see these other disorders where they're egosyntonic, really. I don't have trouble with that one, I do have trouble with the other thing you mentioned, which is...so wait a minute, you're saying you're distressed and I'm saying not. I think that, I guess for me though...like the eating disorders, where you have to have all of the criteria or you don't get the diagnosis, in hoarding you have to have all of the criteria. And so if the person says "I'm distressed," I almost say, "well you're not distressed enough if I don't see a hoard."
Rebecca: So there's also this question in the diagnostic criteria, one of the criteria anyway reads, "persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value." And I'm wondering, is it a requirement that some of the possessions in the hoard to be a hoard are not objectively valuable or that there's a determination of inappropriate valuation at some point. So either they're objectively worthless and the person thinks they're worth money, or there's things that the person is sentimentally attached to that it just doesn't kind of make sense to be so sentimentally attached to those particular items? I guess the reason that I'm asking this is that I read this really interesting article this morning about a couple who their home appeared to be totally hoarded out, they couldn't have people over, it was totally filled to the brim, but then they were found to actually be in the possession of a very valuable art collection, which they donated and was valued at millions of dollars. I mean it made their apartment totally non-functional for a decade, but when somebody actually went through the items, they found that they were excessively, they were actually really valuable works of art. And yes they were impairing the couple's use of the home, but it was appropriate for them to be saved because they were so valuable. Would that count as hoarding disorder? Is there an element of either lack of value in the objects or indiscriminateness in the saving? Does that make sense?
Interviewee: Yeah, so the way I...I agree that that wording could be improved for sure. But when I see that criteria in driving that is this idea that nobody would just throw away their possessions indiscriminately, yet we would all get rid of some items. You know, the chopsticks that came with my sushi last night, I'm not gonna keep them because I have too many chopsticks already. And I think that the regardless of their, I forget how you said it was worded.