Rebecca: Okay, can you explain what you mean?
Interviewee: I mean the person can say, "Oh yes I have great difficulty discarding, yes I acquire a lot" and on why they intend to save these things, "Oh getting rid of them would be very upsetting to me" but if there is no hoard, if there is no accumulation of possessions but if it's severe enough that we want to apply the word "disorder" to it, then we don't have a diagnosis. When you ask people about their impairment, if they don't have hoarding but they have too much stuff they will endorse impairment. It just dines't meet my threshold for impairment. Like if you have to spend 5 minutes cleaning off your dining table before you can sit down and eat, that doesn't count as hoarding to me.
Rebecca: Well so that's kind of the cracks of the issue for me, is that I at least am very hard pressed to think of another disorder that requires external objects to be said to exist. You know like, it's been like a mystery for me in doing these interviews like how do you diagnose something that essentially you have to say exists in the person's mind, but you can only diagnose it if they have totally external items in sufficient quantities. You know like you would never diagnose like diabetes or hypertension or something based on how much ice cream or sugar that person has got their hands on, and if--
Interviewee: No, but I don't thin that's the right way to think about it. I think that by looking at the person's home, it like gives you a measurement. So it's more like getting a person suspected of an eating disorder to stand on a scale. And if they're not underweight, it doesn't matter how much they say yes they're afraid of getting fat and they restrict their eating. If they're not underweight, they're not anorexic. 
Rebecca: I think that that's an interesting analogy. The other strange part about hoarding disorder that we'll talk about a little bit more, at least for me, is the criteria of distress because often people with hoarding disorder will not endorse distress. They'll say, "I'm totally happy with the situation as it is" and they might even deny that they would be distressed if they had to throw items away. But even then it would be hypothetical distress, but they might even deny that. Whereas as you mentioned, sometimes people who don't meet criteria for hoarding disorder will say they're distressed but the clinician has to say that's not true distress somehow. So you have again the situation where one person is saying, "I'm not distressed" and we're saying, "Oh yes you are." You know what I mean? Like I wonder how you asses distress in the context of hoarding. 
Interviewee: Well isn't the criteria distress or impairment?