Interviewer: Do you see very many people who fall in that category of sub-clinical?
Interviewee: You know, we would see more but we try to screen them out and we use photographs in our telephone screening. I think what gets in the way is the questions that you would ask to evaluate whether someone has difficulties discarding things that other people might part with. That kind of question for a person who doesn't know anything about hoarding, they may say yes if they have just a strong attachment to things or if they've always been the kind of person who's a bit messy or if maybe they have a family member who's a minimalist, so they have some kind of conflict about it. But they're not actually anywhere close to hoarding, they'll say yes to all of those mental state questions.
Interviewer: Because they don't really have a context for what an abnormal response would look like.
Interviewee: Exactly, exactly. And then when we look at the photos of their home we go, "Oh, right." You know like had one woman who said, "Oh gosh, my bedroom is barely functional, you know sometimes I walk across the room and I trip on my shoes." And we looked at her bedroom and actually yeah there was a pair of shoes on the floor, but that doesn't mean hoarding. It's just a bit of a messy person.
Interviewer: Mhm, I can totally understand that too, having...you know, it's interesting to do these interviews because when you don't--when I started out doing them I didn't know anything really about hoarding disorder and reading the diagnostic criteria I was like, "Well this is so vague," but when you talk to experts they're like, "it's honestly really not difficult to tell." You know like it's not vague at all, but it's interesting too because it does seem to be a little bit of a gestalt, almost like a you just know it when you see it kind of a thing, rather than there being a clear yes or no boundary.
Interviewee: It is hard to describe, I would say it's like the concept of a [INAUDIBLE] set, there are hoarded homes that are clearly hoarded, they pretty much all look alike. But there are a lot of cases that kind of fall in the middle that are difficult, and it might be because there's somebody else in the home who is keeping a lid on things.