Interviewer: SO like, "I might become a person who can repair this printer and the printer might get fixed."
Interviewee: Yes, yes, exactly. I also sometimes see a kind of distortions around, "I might repair this piece of clothing." And in my world, I would love it if I repaired clothing, but I know I don't. I just don't because they're just not suitable for wearing. I either give them away or throw them away. But only because I could put it aside for mending but I will never do it.
Interviewer: So it's that step that people are kind of lacking, the ability to know what they themselves are likely to do in the future with objects.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, it's like they operate on a should.
Interviewer: And it's less like, "I have this broken printer and I really believe that this printer is worth $1000, I truly have this unreasonable belief in the value of this clearly worthless item," and more that I truly believe that someday I might repair the printer and then the printer might be worth $1000. So it's less like a truly unreasonable belief in the actual value of the item at this moment?
Interviewee: I think it's, you know I do see a lot of statements about there could be some value like somebody will want this VCR. But I don't often hear people spontaneously coming up with [INAUDIBLE] and I think if we start talking about well why do you think a person would be willing to pay and do you think a person would be willing to pay that amount, then I think they would soften up more easily. But because they remain vague, it's worth something not worth nothing, then that's what keeps the object in their home.
Interviewer: So it's more of a distinction between worth and worthless, rather than $200 vs $2.
Interviewee: Yeah, and I think most people have some level of valuation, and that level might depend on your economic circumstances. At some level, when an object falls below that they'll say, "I'm just gonna donate it, it's not even worth my time to figure out who might pay me.
Interviewer: And they just don't have that threshold at all.
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: Have you ever encountered individuals who have this problem with animals? Who are animal hoarders?
Interviewee: I have not clinically. My sister rescues cats, and there was a time when she, I felt she was teetering on the edge of cat hoarding. She never flipped over and I had some serious conversations with her and ever since then she's not been near that edge again, but I know animal hoarding is not something I can personally work with, so I don't have much direct experience with it.