Interviewer: So insight isn't related necessarily to the desire for treatment or the desire to change their behavior, insight is simply the ability to know that their behavior departs from the norm. And then separate form that is the desire to fix the behavior or to make their home different, to discard, all that is not insight, it's more like willingness for treatment.
Interviewee: Yeah, I would agree with all of that except for the parting with the norm, in that my partner, for example, will often stay up very late working, and she knows it's bad for her. She knows that if she's been working on the computer she's not going to sleep well that night, she knows that her work is slower at 2 in the morning, but she persists in doing it. So she doesn't actually have a desire to change, but she has excellent insight about the consequences of this behavior. So I wouldn't say deviations from the norm, so much as I would say they can realistically evaluate the consequences.
Interviewer; So it's not that the behavior's unusual so much as recognizing that the behavior is impairing.
Interviewee: Yeah, it has some consequence or what it is. Like she didn't say, "Oh I never go to bed after midnight" when in fact she goes to bed at 2. She would say, "I go to bed at 2." And that's what I call insight.
Interviewer: With your patients who have lower insight, do you find that their lack of insight is more like a psychosis in the sense that they can't reality perceive reality? Like they will insist on things that are just really apparently not true, like "I can't throw away this piece of trash because it is worth tons of money" and that's kins of like a nonsensical belief, you know, it's an easily disprovable belief. Or do you feel like they don't have those kinds of--or another way of asking that question is are they able to perceive their spaces? Will they deny that their spaces are full? Or is it more that they can see the stuff but they don't recognize that it's truly as extreme as it is or that other people's homes don't look like that?
Interviewee: I actually think they fluctuate. I think it's synched with a desire for items, they might say, "Oh I've got plenty of space to live" and truly believe it at the time. They'll also be able to sit in the middle of their room and say, "there's no space in here, it's too full" at a different time.
Interviewer: So, at some points their beliefs might resemble...they might depart from reality in obvious ways, but it changes and sometimes they are able to kind of see the reality of the situation.
Interviewee: Yeah, and the kind of departures from reality, the main departure from reality I see is one that we all indulge in, and that is thinking that they're going to become a different person in the future. Like not using their own past behavior of a good judge of how they're going to continue behaving in the future.
Interviewer: Interesting, so almost like a kind of optimism.
Interviewee: Yeah, an optimism about what kind of changes are going to occur, and I might do this but the fact that I haven't done it in the past 10 years are not informing my judgement about that.