Interviewer: Kind of to follow that up, different individuals--so one of the reasons I found your initial response to my question about how you can tell hoarding disorder to be so interesting, is that different people might like to have different amounts of stuff around them. So, I might like to have a totally clear desk, whereas my sister might really prefer a desk that's cluttered and she might say something like, "well I think better when there are more items around me." And I wonder if you ever think of hoarding disorder as being an extension of that sort of concept, or maybe less about the individual items and more about the relationship between a person and objects in space. So, I like to be more enclosed, or they like to have a busier...I think the word they used is chaotic, you know they like to have things that they can look at and see everywhere around them; rather than somebody who prefers simplicity in their space.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think there's something to that. I don't know, however, how much of that is familiarity because hoarding is not an episodic problem and it didn't develop yesterday in the person. So, that's kind of in part what I was also meaning about the slow creep of the hoard, but their home has come to look and feel in a certain way. We have a hoarded room in my lab, and it really does look like a hoarded room, and there's a different smell about that room. There's no squalor in the room but there's kind of that dusty cardboard sort of smell and if that's the smell that you've come to associate with the home, then that would be a comforting smell. And there's also a different acoustic in that room than in the room next door, which is perfectly empty. And if that's the acoustic that you've come to associate with home, then that's gonna be appealing to you and having a lot less stuff in it is going to feel weird.
Interviewer: So it's hard to tell whether it's just that you're accustomed to your space being that way, versus if that's really what you're trying to accomplish by making our space that way.
Interviewee: Yeah, and I think that's part of what's relevant about having hoarding in your family, that if you grew up in a hoarded home then you've always had this kind of aesthetic around the home in terms of what the walls look like and what it sounds like and what is smells like.
Interviewer: Mhhm, kind of speaking to the point that you've made about the creep of the hoard, a lot of the literature around hoarding suggests that patients with this disorder are older, although that might not be where it always starts. Do you have a sense with your patients how long it's been going on when they come to see you?
Interviewee: Decades.