Rebecca: That makes sense. The last little kind of topic that I'd like to touch on before I let you go, and again I really appreciate your time this has been a wonderful conversation, is about insight. So a lot of the literature describes people with hoarding disorder having particularly low insight, and I'd first just like to ask how you would define insight in the context of hoarding disorder? Like what does it mean to have insight?
Interviewee: So I would say insight is an ability to make an assessment of the conditions in the home and the consequences of the hoarding behavior that reasonably well mirrors what another person's assessment would be. And I've heard a description of home in general as the place where you can only see it through a stranger's eyes for a sheer second. So all of us have poor insight of our homes. I don't know if you've had the occasion, like if you come back from vacation, you've been away from home for a while, and then there's this one little moment where you see your home as an outsider would and then boom it's gone, and it's just home. 
Rebecca: I definitely had that experience, yup. Like, "oops I have to clean."
Interviewee: Mhmm, I have to clean or even if you left it perfectly clean, just the slight difference like, "Oh this is an inviting space" or "Oh wow that's really irritating" or whatever it is, but you experience it not in your habitual home way but as an independent observer would look at it.
Rebecca: So, insight for you with hoarding disorder is the ability to have that moment to look at your space and see it as somebody who is not accustomed to it would see it. 
Interviewee: Yeah, maybe not quite that broad because I think that's a very rare moment. I can tell you the ways in which my garage is functional and not functional and you would probably agree with me if you looked at my garage. And it's that kind of concurrence of ability to evaluate it, not even just the affective response of what it feels like to be in the space, but how useful is this space? How clean is it? 
Rebecca: So, insight is the ability for someone to be able to tell you that in a way that some objective observer would agree with.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, you have kind of a shared perception of what's going on there.
Rebecca: Does it involve kind of the desire to change it? So if I'm a person who's home is completely hoarded out and I say, "Yeah I recognize that somebody else might really hate this space and it's gross, but I don't want to change it. I like it the way it is and I'm gonna live in it this way and I'm happy with it." Am I a person with low insight or with high insight?
Interviewee: I would say that's independent, because I've certainly talked to people who like maybe they make just enough change in treatment to satisfy whoever was threatening them, and they don't want to go any further because actually they are not bothered by it. They can see it, but it's fine with them. They'd rather live with it than make changes.