Interviewer: Okay, perfect. Okay so now we're going to get into the more conversational part of our interview, and for this I'd like you to just begin by giving me a little bit of background about you in terms of how you encounter individuals with this disorder.
Interviewee: Um, well I do research and I have two lines of research having to do with hoarding, one with community-based interventions for hoarding and there I don't actually talk to people who have hoarding themselves, I'm talking with some of the service providers, like a fire department guy or a street nurse or something like that, and they talk about patients. And we also collect data, so there's data about the cases, but it's quite impoverished because there's no person attached to it. The other line of my research has to do with psychological functioning in hoarding, and there we actually have people who identify as having problems with hoarding come into our research lab and we give them a diagnostic interview and a bunch of testing. I directly listen to the diagnostic interviews, so I hear--I don't conduct them but I supervise them, so I hear quite a lot of stories from these recordings. And finally I supervise a [INAUDIBLE] doing group [INAUDIBLE] for hoarding. And so we usually have less than 6 clients per year and two students, probably like 2 more that don't work out for the group, and I watch all of those sessions, but I also attend home visits. I get to know the clients personally, that way [INAUDIBLE]. I also have treated hoarding individually, but I just don't have time to do that all of the time.
Interviewer: And what degrees do you hold?
Interviewee: I have a PhD in Psychology, clinical.
Interviewer: Okay, now we're gonna talk through the process of diagnosing hoarding disorder and we're gonna specifically talk about some of the DSM-IV criteria. So, just to kind of begin, what for you are the main and most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting or even extreme collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: For me the major difference is that in normal saving, or even collecting, the person's decisions about what to acquire or save are responsive to the amount of space they have available.
Interviewer: Interesting.
Interviewee: So some people have a lot of space and some people don't have that much space, but people make choices in relation to that space and I think people who hoard are not making those choices.