Rebecca: Because you would look for multiple ways that the space was being compromised by the items and just one might not be enough but you'd want to look and see is the amount of stuff really impairing the person's use of their home beyond this single example, and is it extended to multiple examples.
Interviewee: That's right, and also I would be looking to satisfy myself if, are they telling me a story about who they are as a person and that's real and that would be true even if they didn't have stuff, or are they telling me a story of how they've accommodated to their symptoms? 
Rebecca: I guess that you could ask that same question in kind of a larger way about this disorder. I mean, do you feel that when somebody tells you, "I'm saving this item because I might use it someday or I'm afraid to waste it," do you feel like they're justifying the fact that they have already decided to save it? Like is the symptom "I have to save things" and then they come up with reasons sort of post-hoc to justify that behavior? Or do you feel like it's the reasoning that's driving the saving behavior? Does that make sense as a question?
Interviewee: That's a good question, I don't know the answer to that...I really don't. 
Rebecca: It's something that I wonder a lot about with hoarding symptoms because the answers--the reasons that people give for why they're saving are so uniform, it really makes me wonder are these just the reasons that we as a society have decided it's appropriate to save, so when somebody is compulsively saving are they just reciting the reasons that that might be okay, or are their reasons more psychological and more cognitive and more driving? You know is it more similar to an obsessive-compulsive disorder where they're really worried about memory and poverty and things they might need?
Interviewee: Yeah, I can think of it around kind of being a good person, and a good person is prepared for emergencies and a good person is true to their artistic selves and a good person doesn't waste things. And whichever one of those reason for saving kind of talks to their sense of "I'm a good person." I'm hesitant to totally disregard that as a rationalization of the behavior, but it certainly looks like that and smells like that at times but I just don't really know.
Rebecca: I want to be respectful of your time, this has been really a wonderful conversation and I do have more questions for you but I know that I'm taking up more time than I asked for, so if you have to go please just let me know and I'll wrap up, okay?
Interviewee: Okay.