Rebecca: And I guess my question is, do you view hoarding as a disorder that is progressive in a sense of getting worse with age, like the behavior intensifies as a person ages? Or do you think that the reason older people tend to have it is more related to them needing time to have accumulated that much stuff? You know, them being maybe in a social place in their lives where older people are going to be more isolated, their children have left, you know maybe left their stuff at home, they're more likely to be in a stable living space for a longer period of time rather than moving to new apartments every couple of years. Or even it's just getting picked up at that stage because they are less mobile. I guess what I'm asking is do you think it's progressive? Do you think it worsens with age, maybe do to cognitive issues or do you think that it's mostly a side effect? That it happens to be seen mostly with older people for more kind of lifestyle or social reasons?
Interviewee: I think it's both. I think that all of the reasons that you listed about why it might be more evident in older people, all of those ring true and I would say maybe up until early older adulthood that would be the primary driver. Maybe add to that list deceased parents, so now you have the extra stuff that you don't know what to do with, and then I think that there probably is a progressive, even if there's not like cognitive decline, there's physical decline. And so, you get a new printer, what do you do with the old one? Well it's harder to do stuff like that when you're 75 than if you're 35.
Rebecca: Just cognitively harder?
Interviewee: I think cognitively and physically. Like the whole package of aging is harder to--
Rebecca: Harder to get anything done.
Interviewee: Exactly, exactly. So you have the house painted and then there's all these cans of empty paint, what do you do with them? I would say, like maybe--okay, so here's a hypothesis. Maybe in older adults, if this were true you would expect to see that the more recently acquired items in the home were actually passively saved rather than intentionally saved.
Rebecca: That's interesting, I would like to know the answer to that. That's a good way of figuring that out. Like maybe they've been more intentional and then at a certain point they've just stopped discarding because it's harder and that would be a way you could figure that out.
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly. Yeah because people do stop acquiring in some point in life, like you get everything you need so you're not acquiring these things intentionally like just to add to, like "oh geez I could use a [INAUDIBLE 1:02:36] or whatever" [laughs]. 
Rebecca: So you think that maybe the intentional acquiring like shopping acquiring stops at a certain point or slows down and then it becomes more passive.
Interviewee: Yeah I think it probably slows, yeah. You'll still need a new printer every once in a while, but you wouldn't necessarily upgrade.