Interviewer: And how do you make that determination about value when somebody is saying to you something about the sentimental value of an item? How do you determine if it's an appropriate or inappropriate sentimental valuation? So you know, somebody saying I can't throw away this box of baby clothes because my daughter wore them when she was a baby. Is that a matter of sort of extent?
Interviewee: For me, that's why I come back to being responsive to the space available. So a person who is living in a big house where they raised their children, it's not uncommon for people to have an area of the basement that has their kid's possessions, they might want it someday. But if it's interfering with their living space, most people...very few people keep every single thing their baby ever touched. There's some decisions along the way of stuff you gotta get rid of, and so where you draw the line seems to me to be around the space you have available.
Interviewer: One of the other criteria reads, "the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter living areas and substantially compromises their intended use." And I'm thinking about, for example the example that you gave earlier of the woman who had her countertops totally clear and thus was not compromising the intended use of her kitchen, but what if I gave you a counter example where her clutter extended to the countertops but she said, "I don't know how to cook and I don't have any cooking supplies, and so this is how I want to use my kitchen counters because I'll never use them for cooking." How do you determine that kind of intended use? I mean you could again extend that example outward and say, "I don't have any guests, so why do I need a guest room? I only shower so I don't need a bathtub." You know, you could extend out to the point of absurdity, but how do you draw the line on a patient by patient basis?
Interviewee: Right, yeah so I think that's a really good question you're making and it sounds like you're implicitly noting that people will make accommodations in their lives and then use the fact that they've made an accommodation to the symptom as a kind of a rationalization. Like this isn't really that big of a problem because I don't paint it big. And I would say that if I see one example of something like that in the home, where the person is saying, "well I don't really cook so it doesn't matter that my stove is covered in stuff" if that was all I saw was just the one example, I might go, "Okay,"but usually we see many more examples. That's what I would be looking for and I think that's one of the things that troubles me about that case that I gave you, is that I only really see the bedroom being impairment, and so that troubles me.