Interviewer: It seems like there were a bunch of different components. So part of it was that the apartment, some part seemed usable and some parts seemed less usable and it was difficult to evaluate how long the situation was gonna stay like that. So maybe that would've been acceptable if her apartment was gonna stay in that condition for a little while, but if that was a permanent state it might be evaluated differently. And then also because her bed wasn't typically arranged the way a typical bed would, it sounds like it also made it more difficult to evaluate like how much there really was in these photographs. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: I think that's right, that's right. And also because we weren't physically in the room, we couldn't...it didn't look like there was a lot in the closets, but I've also seen that in hoarded homes. Like where everything is in the middle of the room and the closets are empty. And so yeah I had a really hard time sorting that. Oh and she also said that--she described a hallway in which there was a washer, a dryer, and a desk and we didn't have photos of this part, but she said her landlord had come by to let her boyfriend into the apartment and he'd seen the hallway and he'd said to her, "This needs to be cleaned up." Like apparently it was really overflowing with laundry and things like that and so that made me think oh there's pressure, like obviously that hallway looks quite full. But then she said that the landlord had told her, "you know, whenever you'd like me to come back, whenever you feel ready for me to come back and have a look that it's cleaned up you just let me know." So that means that he didn't think it was urgent, like really freak out, but clearly he thought something was not right in there.
Interviewer: So that was kind of your way of imagining what somebody who was outside this home would think of the home, and from that you typed up that it was unusual but maybe not truly alarming.
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly, yeah.
Interviewer: And so how did you end up making the decision? What decision did you end up coming to?
Interviewee: We ended up, or I ended up deciding that she didn't meet criteria for hoarding because I felt like her home was too functional, but I also didn't put her in the healthy control group because she had too much hoarding for me to feel like she was clearly in either group. So we have a category that we call sub-clinical, where we see if the person's endorsing all the right mental state around their objects. There's just not quite enough impairment, so I put her in that category.