Rebecca: That's a really interesting answer to that question, I think that's the first time I've ever heard that answer in exactly that way. How do you judge that, I guess, in the context of different people kind of just having different amounts of space? So, somebody might live in a ver small apartment and have less space, and therefore just need fewer items to reach that threshold?
Interviewee: Exactly, that's right. It's part of our research, we make our diagnosis informed in part by photographs that the participants bring in of their home. So we have healthy control participants, we have sub-clinical hoarding and hoarding, so I see inside a lot of homes that way [laughs]. And so I've seen quite a lot of small apartments, and people who are not hoarding, they just have fewer things in the smaller apartment. Kind of like a person living in a big home and lots of storage space has a lot of stuff in that storage space, and a person who lives in an apartment without much storage space at all would make different choices and have fewer items.
Rebecca: I guess you could take that example kind of to the extreme though, and you could say imagine a person who has an enormous house and maybe an ability to buy multiple storage units and is just never going to run out of space, just financially is never going to reach that threshold, will that person ever have hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Well, that's the thing. I think that even a person who has a large amount of space, if you're not responsive to the amount of space you've got....so, let's say they have what you might call an insatiable desire to acquire, even a large home can be filled up. 
Rebecca: Mhhm, so a person with hoarding disorder is always going to fill all of the space, even if they have a lot of space.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think they will. Especially--the other thing I think that happens is that, I don't know this for sure but I think that the creep of possession occurs so gradually, that the person doesn't notice that their living space is getting smaller and smaller.
Rebecca: Okay, so it's not a sudden influx of items, it's a slow acquisition.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah. Every once in a while I'll hear about somebody who inherited stuff, you know. We had to clean out mom's house and I didn't know what to do with it so everything's here. Every once in a while I hear something like that, but often I think that it's that they're just not noticing until there's some kind of tipping point. That the space to maneuver has gotten littler and littler and the amount of space they have to sit on the sofa has gotten smaller and smaller.