Interviewer: So there was this wonderful paper by [NAME] about the concept of insight, which is really the big one that discusses it and breaks it down and he broke it down into four different constructs that one could talk about when one talks about insight, and I'm gonna read them to you. The first one is defensiveness, the second one is anosognosia or kind of the lack of ability to perceive your illness or that something is wrong and causing you distress or reducing quality of life, the third is overvalued ideation, which is kind of the persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items which could be mild or could be delusional, and then the final one is indifference. And I wonder if you see all of these in your patients, if you see some of them as being more important than others or how you relate what you think of as insight or low insight to these different ideas of defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation and indifference?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think for me the first three I would say I see in equal distribution frequently, and sometimes overlapping. The indifference is...I see far less I would say, at least as I understand Randy to have been talking about it, and I think I also would say about the first three that I see them as present at different levels and with fluctuation as I was saying earlier. So, sometimes in the same patient, that defensiveness is really really patient and other times it is almost entirely absent. And I remember when I first started to treat this problem as a young [INAUDIBLE] clinician that was, that was a bit crazy-making for me. It was hard to understand how one day these problems around insight were so present, and then I'd sit with the same patient the next week and it was almost as if it was a different person talking about the same conditions. And then sure as I got familiar with that then here comes the defensiveness again or here comes the anosognosia or you know. So, yeah I think I could probably count on two hands the number of patients out of the hundreds that I've worked with where the indifference was very strong. I think it's a much more limited feature from my perspective.
Interviewer: It's interesting to me because overvalued ideation certainly, and anosognosia perhaps to a lesser extent, almost sound like a psychosis or like an inability to perceive reality. Like you look at an object and you truly believe that it's worth more than it is in a way that departs from reality, or you look at a space and you truly cannot see the space as it exists, and I wonder if that's a part of insight for you? If that kind of like break from reality and the ability to perceive reality, is that a big part for you? Is that a small part?
Interviewee: I think it's a big part, though when I compare it to--I also do work in the area of animal hoarding--and when I compare those two to the sort of delusional, articulated, persistent delusional beliefs that we hear alongside animal hoarding, that makes the anosognosia and overvalued ideation look like nothing, quite honestly. It makes it look like mild.