Interviewer: I mean it's interesting for me as a--so, somebody who's not in this field at all--to think about hoarding disorder because in a sense it's unique in two respects. One is it's a disorder that you can't really diagnose from the patient's body or even from their, like an examination of their mind or their speech, it requires external objects to diagnose and I can't think of another disorder that requires something truly external to the patient to have. And then it's maybe not unique in disorders in that the insight problem exists for many psychiatric disorders, where people will deny that they have a problem, but I think this quality of the disorder is distressing to others is also a way that hoarding is weirdly kind of external to the patient themselves. That when clinicians in these interviews talk about distress, they often talk about other people's distress other than the patient's. The patient's spouse, the patient's family, or you know that kind of society at large is distressed, and the patient themselves is the one who is kind of being told that they fit this distress criteria, but often it's the distress of others that is driving them in or is what's really happening. And I don't know I guess I'm just trying to get your thoughts on that on why you think, in this particular case, insight is kind of a problem in that way or why it's having this kind of strange externalizing effect?
Interviewee: Yeah, well I think wherever you have something that is egosyntonic, it's not surprising. True in other conditions, right, so if something feels consistent and right and good, even if there is...intrapsychically if it feels consistent and right and good, evidence from the external world then is what creates the dissonance or ambivalence at best, which then of course can be explored and enhanced, leading potentially to some motivational change. But I think the quality of the fact that these objects are often for people with hoarding where they have their primary relationship, they are where they spend most of their time, they are the source of their identity and good feelings about themselves, and so in the same way that we think about being in a relationship with another person who others might be able to judge from the outside and say, "Oh I wish you wouldn't hang out with that person, they're not good for her" that person doesn't feel that distress. They enjoy that relationship, they enjoy that experience, they're getting whatever they're getting from that relationship and I think the relationship with the objects is very similar here.
Interviewer: That's interesting, like having an abusive relationship with objects.
Interviewee: I'm sorry?