Rebecca: Like having an abusive relationship with objects.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, certainly one that is not fully healthy or supporting the person from, in all domains yes. And the, I think the insight piece is tricky because there is to some degree in many people who hoard recognition that they are not like other people. If this weren't true, shame wound't be present. If that wasn't true, there wouldn't be worry about stigma or inviting people in or fear of negative consequences. So, I think this insight piece is worthy of enormous amounts of research and exploration because it is not, for most people, entirely absent. The insight into the impairment, the functional impairment or the negative consequences for self might be more diminished, but for most people that I've encountered clinically, now hundreds of people with hoarding, this idea that they're not like others seems to be present at lest to some greater or lesser extent. So, that part of insight is a little trickier for me. How do we help people who have some awareness that they're not like others actually use that to either be able to articulate the distress that they feel, or to move them toward being more motivated--intrinsically motivated--for treatment?
Rebecca: Mhhm, I mean it really is a very interesting problem, particularly with hoarding disorder, and I think you are exactly right as to why because they do realize that they're different, it's just that they don't see their differentness as a problem and in some cases, in many cases, they see it almost as being a good thing, a thing that is better about them than other people.
Interviewee: That's right, that other people just somehow don't understand the value of things in the way that they do, yep. 
Rebecca: And I mean, as a clinician it must be unusual to encounter people like that and to also at the same time see that they are exceptionally creative and that sometimes there's almost something cool about having a person who really sees value in objects and appreciates them in that way.
Interviewee: That's right, that's right yeah for sure.