Rebecca: Yeah, and it sounds like the conversation we were just having about people with object hoarding behaviors and being able to see the problem in some level, do you feel like that's different with individuals with animal hoarding?
Interviewee: Yeah, well I don't have enough experience but in my experience I feel like people with animal hoarding, they don't really have the insight into the...you know, they do have a lot of love and care--many of them do, I know there's different types of animal hoarding but many of them do love and care for the animals, but they cannot see that they're not caring for the animals properly.
Rebecca: So that maybe is a true blindness almost rising to the level of delusion?
Interviewee: Yes.
Rebecca: Kind of the end of the interview but just to kind of finish up with some broad questions about your thinking about these kinds of problems, at the beginning of the interview I asked you to generate a list of reasons that people with hoarding problems tend to give to justify their behavior, and I wonder if kind of thinking abstractly, do you think that these reasons that they give are kind of what's driving the behavior? Or do you think that the behavior is what's coming first, and the reasons that people give are kind of post-hoc explanations for a compulsive behavior?
Interviewee: I think a lot of times the explanation for the behavior, because they're being asked why you're doing it. Yeah, they do kind of justify the behavior coming up with whatever they can to justify why they keep something or why they're doing something, rather than that's actually the reason why they're doing it. Because I can ask somebody the same question about why they're keeping this one day, and then the next day they'll give me a completely different answer.
Rebecca: So it seems like they're saving it and then maybe when they're questioned as to why they're saving it, they're coming up with a reason.
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it could be different in different people, but it my experience most of the time, they'll say a reason why they're saving it and then I will kind of refuse that and say "well there has to be more," and then they'll come up with another reason. So, I don't think that the reason for actually saving that they're giving me is the reason why they're saving it.
Rebecca: So, the behavior is kind of driving the justification.
Interviewee: I think so.