Interviewer: So, often it's because somebody else has judges their space to be kind of a risk, and so you go into their home to assess the safety and to see if it really is a risk.
Interviewee: Exactly.
Interviewer: Earlier I asked you for a list of ways that you could tell a person had hoarding disorder, and I wonder if in addition to kind of the objective list, when I do these interviews with clinicians they sometimes say that like if they were to look at a waiting room at a new patient, they would often be able to feel like they could tell if that person was coming in for hoarding problems, and they kind of give almost like a stereotypical picture of what that patient looks like. I wonder if you have a sense, if a patient is sitting in your waiting room, you've never seen them before but you kind of can guess that they're there for hoarding problems. What does that person look like?
Interviewee: So, well there are I guess times where I have an idea that they may have it, but I also want to add that a lot of people have hoarding problems and they don't look like it at all. Many of my clients work full-time jobs and they work in government jobs and they work as teachers or whatever, and they don't look at all like they would have a typical hoarding disorder, but if I saw somebody that you know...they usually are carrying a lot of random things like shopping bags or reusable bags that have like a lot of paper or bottles. Sometimes they look like they haven't bathed or showered because they may not have the ability to shower often. They may look, sometimes they wear layers of clothing or have items that wouldn't really fit with going out to an appointment on them like quite a bit of books or papers or scrap papers.
Interviewer: Do you feel like there are likewise kind of stereotypical personalities, like they tend to be a certain kind of person, they tend to have certain other kind of non-clinical personality traits?
Interviewee: No.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: I know that a lot...just from my experience, my clients are so varied that I can't really say that there are certain personality traits. Maybe, you know...no I can't really say.
Interviewer: So like for example, sometimes clinicians will say that their hoarding clients are particularly creative, are particularly bubbly or extraverted, want to be involved in everything that's around them, that's the kind of thing I'm getting at.
Interviewee: Okay, well I do think that a lot of my clients do think in very creative ways, like they may not be creative like art creative, but they can find uses for items that I would never think about. So, they can reuse objects or have ideas for certain things that they can create or use them for, but for me my clients vary so much from extraverted to introverted, it just kind of depends on the person. But yeah, they do have very creative minds and often seem a bit disorganized. Like, they can't organize, it may not be about their items or their space, but they sometimes have very disorganized thinking. So, it's hard for them to stick to one topic at a time when talking. They'll kind of move around in the conversation and get distracted.