Interviewer: Do you feel like there's a component of hoarding I guess we'll say behavior that is about the management of space? So, some people might enjoy a very clear and open space, whereas other people may feel really comfortable being surrounded by objects in a different way. Do you feel like is a part of hoarding behavior, or do you think that that is separate or not always seen, or sometimes?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it depends on the person and you know I think it really takes a lot of time to understand somebody. Like why do they feel safe in a place that has a lot of stuff? Like what is it about the stuff and their space that is making them feel comfortable? And I think it's really important for anybody to understand that not everybody lives in the same way, like I wound't necessarily live in a home like my friend who has lots of stuff, but she may be more comfortable in that space than I am. So, I think when I look at it, I look at why they are living in that space and if there's safety lists involved that they're not considering, like I can see a lot from somebody I get a lot of consultations about. You know, this person is hoarding and then I go into their home and they just have a lot of stuff. There's no safety risks, but their family or their mental health worker just views it as being like not good or not a way that they would live. So, you know, in my experience I look at...when I'm looking specifically at space, less at their attachment, I look at the safety risks.
Interviewer: So, you might go into somebody's house and feel like wow this is really a lot of stuff, but you don't make the call as to whether it's a disorder on the basis of your subjective impression of how much they have. You really only look at their space in terms of can they...is it interfering with their activities of daily living, can they get in and out of the house, does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right, or if it's a fire risk and do they really feel safe in that space or comfortable in that space, or do they just feel uncomfortable with changing that space? So, I kind of have to make sure there's a differentiation between what's comfortable for them and if they're just not wanting to deal with the space. But really looking less at my own feelings towards their home, if that makes sense.
Interviewer: Do you frequently asses your clients' homes or space as part of an evaluation?
Interviewee: Yes, especially because--
Interviewer: And do you typically go to their home?
Interviewee: Yeah, I go to their homes.
Interviewer: And what were you going to say, especially because?
Interviewee: Because that's kind of the only way that people get some service or...you know, that's the only way that I'm often involved in their space is because somebody else said that their space is unsafe for them to live in, so I look at the safety risks. If someone invites me into their home, generally it's because they want to make changes on their own and I do look at the safety risks but...yeah the safety risks is one of the biggest things I look at.