Interviewer: So there's another component about the DSM-IV that talks about difficulty discarding regardless of actual value, and I'm wondering if you've ever dealt with this as a component of wondering if somebody is an individual with hoarding disorder? So, does the value of the possessions that they're saving play into your thinking about this disorder? We tend to think of individuals with hoarding disorder as saving things that are objectively valueless or over-estimating the value of items, but could you have a person who has this disorder who saves things that are valuable?
Interviewee: Yes, yeah that also is something...like I have clients who will only hoard brand-new item, like electronics, but they have the same feelings towards these objects even though they haven't used them, they have no immediate use for it, it's cluttering up you know. They can't use their kitchen because they have no many appliances, so I think it also depends on people's means and what they're actually hoarding. So, the items may not have little or no value, or they may have lot's of value. I think that's also suggestive to the individual and you know who working [INAUDIBLE] what they think is valuable or not.
Interviewer: So, it sounds like for you the really crucial thing with individuals with this--and I like how you say this behavior, it sounds like it really comes down to the kind of attachment to objects, their emotional connection to object. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Exactly, yeah.
Interviewer: And so it doesn't really matter what they're saving or how much they have because how much they have and what they're saving is kind of contextual, but if they have that strong sense of emotional connection to an object, that for you qualifies them as at least having behavior even if you can't technically give them the diagnosis. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Right and maybe also with the decision-making. Like when I talk to people, when they have difficulties knowing what to recycle and what to put in the garbage and what's still usable and what isn't usable, that also can be an indication to me along with the attachment to the object and those emotional feelings towards the object, that can be telling to me about whether they have hoarding behavior.