Interviewer: And do you have clients who will pick up a piece of trash and say like, "I could sell this and make $500" or is that pretty unusual?
Interviewee: It's pretty unusual. Like, I do see clients that they do think that they can sell something, but there's usually some logic to it. Like it is an electronic, it might be 20 years old but there is a possibility that someone somewhere may want this old DVD player because it still works. I can understand some of their logic in that, but they may not have like the full ability to understand, well what's more important? Your health or getting 5 dollars for this DVD player? So I think they do have, they overvalue certain things and they will think of multiple uses for items and think that they can use it for multiple things, but they don't really look at cost versus benefit.
Interviewer: Right, right right.
Interviewee: How long is it gonna take you to do this? And you're about to be evicted, so.
Interviewer: But it's not like a full-on delusion where it's like this--
Interviewee: Sorry, can you say that again?
Interviewer: It's not like a full-on delusion in the sense that it's not a totally irrational belief. It's not that they're completely pulling something out of left field. It makes sense, it's just that it's not really reasonable that they'll go through all the trouble to do that behavior of selling it.
Interviewee: Right, yeah like I've never really had someone look at a pop bottle and say, "I can sell this" like "oh I can use this for water," but if they're looking at 15 of them they don't say, "I can use all 15 for water."
Interviewer: Have you ever encountered individuals with animal hoarding problems?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: And do you feel like that's a kind of object hoarding? Do you feel like it's the same sort of thing, or do you feel like it's a completely separate problem? And how do they differ?
Interviewee: I think it's a completely separate problem.
Interviewer: Okay, do you want to talk a little bit about what you think the major differences are besides obviously that one has animals?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think that the reason for hoarding is completely different. And I don't work with people with animal hoarding like regularly or anything, but I think that the reason for hoarding is completely different. They don't have difficulty with decision making the same way, they don't have...like they have an emotional attachment, but I think that they might be stemming more from attachment issues rather than emotional attachment to objects or difficulty understanding like useful or non-useful things. So, I think it is more like...it's stemming from like attachment issues. Like people attachment issues.
Interviewer: There's a difference in where the emotional attachment is coming from, if that makes sense.
Interviewee: Yeah, and maybe a difficulty understanding their ability to care for something rather than difficulty decision making.
Interviewer: Do you feel like there's differences in terms of the level of insight that people tend to have?
Interviewee: Yes, definitely.