Interviewer: So, this criteria you're talking about, the difficulty discarding possessions results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use, I guess I'm wondering...well two things. First of all, you gave the example of a supplemental housing situation where they only have one room, and I'm wondering how you make an assessment of hoarding disorder when people can occupy such different amounts of space. So, if you owned a mansion and were very very rich and could afford kind of infinite storage units, such that your space was never compromised, would you ever have hoarding disorder? Would you ever meet criteria for hoarding disorder? Versus somebody who is living in a one bedroom apartment where the amount of stuff they have, you know, you could have a very normal amount of stuff but if you don't have any space, your space will be congested. So, how do you take that into account and do you take that into account? Would a person who has a mansion ever have hoarding disorder if they couldn't fill up their mansion?
Interviewee: You know, for me the answer is yes and I've had the opportunity to treat a number of people over the years who have sort of unlimited resources and a woman in Massachusetts comes right to mind. She lived in a over 6,0000 square foot home, she had a full staff of people, and while all of that was true and she had a team of people who were literally helping her manage the accumulation of possessions so that the physical interference was somewhat kept at bay, the other elements that we've been talking about, that is the attachment to the objects through the strong beliefs and the emotions, the kind of avoidance behaviors, all of that was deeply intact and interfering in her ability to live as she wished to be living. So this was a woman who, for example, couldn't let any water run down the drain without...she had to save in the sink or in the shower, she collected all of that water and stored it and repurposed it. And so you can see the sort of ideas there and the interference in her ability to sort of live in a normal, whatever that means, way even though the clutter was being managed, the same ideas were also the wastefulness and being in control and these perfectionistic ideas generalized from clothing and books to water in this case. So I think space is, yes it's certainly made complicated by the fact that someone who moved from 2300 square feet to 900 square feet now has to manage their hoarding, but we know that those things are not causal in any way. So, the space alone is not causal but makes diagnosis certainly more complicated, assessment diagnosis more complicated. It doesn't necessarily make intervention more complicated, once you have clearly decided what it is, then you can kind of go forward from there.