Rebecca: Yeah [laughs]
Interviewee: [INAUDIBLE 33:40] In a situation where you know, "Okay then I'll take it and put it in the recycling," or "Okay then I'll take it and donate it to this place," and then they'll say "Oh no I'm not sure" and then it kind of goes through...they might not have insight into their own feelings until they're actually questioned about it. So, 
Rebecca: So you have to kind of confront them with it before they are even aware that they would be distressed.
Interviewee: Yeah, or you know I think sometimes they know they may be distressed or have difficulty, but they don't want to admit it. I think what matters a lot for like the practitioner working with them is to have a really strong therapeutic relationship, where they feel comfortable talking about their feelings. Otherwise, helping them to reach a level of insight into their feelings is really difficult, and it's hard to learn new behaviors and to work on the actual attachment or the emotional part of the treatment if they don't have insight into their feelings.
Rebecca: You use the word insight, and insight is a lot, in hoarding literature, kind of identified as a difficulty with this disorder, so I'd like to turn the conversation to insight, but first I want to ask how you would define insight in the context of hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Whether people can recognize that they are having difficulties or anxieties or difficulties with discarding if they see the risks involved with their behavior. So, if they, you know...I don't always, it doesn't always matter to me if they say, "I have hoarding disorder, I have a hoarding problem" or "I hoard items," because I think there's a lot of negative aspects to using that word with clients, they don't want to be labeled. And so I don't always think like insight means they have to--
Rebecca: Identify as a hoarder.
Interviewee: Identify that they are hoarding or have a hoarding problem. So, it's more about whether they see the risks involved or whether they see what their behavior is doing to others and what it's doing to themselves, even if they can't recognize their feelings. But you know, do they understand that they're having difficulty sleeping because they have so much stuff in their bed that they sleep on the couch? And that it's the amount of stuff that they have is contributing to the fact that they can't do certain things or that they are having difficulty discarding that other people wouldn't have.