Rebecca: I was just gonna follow up and ask you about animal hoarding.
Interviewee: People who hoard animals have this very strong delusional belief, you know, they can be standing in four feet of feces among carcasses of animals and tell you that they're the only person to provide good care. And so I think it is on a continuum and when I think only about object hoarding, I would say that yes I would agree with you that it probably tends towards something less in touch with reality, though my clinical experience of it is I've never actually had to think in my mind, "Oh is this person not in touch with reality?" What it is is such a deeply held belief, it is the definition of a core belief in my mind because it is just this belief that, "because I own this pen, it is worth more than you will ever understand, it is worth more than any other pen like it in the store, it is because it is mine and it has been with me on this journey." So, that's the flavor of it much more so than a dissociated reality, at least to my experience. Sorry, one caveat though I would say is the saving of bizarre items that we see in the smaller percentage of hoarding that overlaps with OCD. Sometimes that overvalued ideation takes a bit more of an out of touch feeling around the bizarre items, but I would say that's the exception and not the rule.
Rebecca: And when you think about the reasons people give, which we made a list of at the beginning, the reasons that they save items. So, those may be related that core belief and maybe even including it, when you think about hoarding disorder, do you feel like the reasons you gave like it's sentimental, it might help me to not forget things, you know those sorts of reasons, do you feel like they are truly driving the disorder? Or do you feel like they're kind of post-hoc justifications that the patient has for kind of an underlying essential biological need to save things, and then they just kind of...they save it, they need to save it, and then when you ask them why, they kind of generate a justification for it?
Interviewee: Um...no, it is my belief that as an anxiety-based disorder that the saving that is happening and the justification for the saving is based in fear and worry, and it is the excessive fear and worry that leads to the thinking that is reinforced both with the accompanying strong emotion. So they have this fear and then all of the accompanying emotions alongside the fear about what will happen if I don't have this object, and what leads me to say that is when I hear these justifications from clients, it's often accompanied by a clear articulation of a very bad thing that would happen to them or to someone that they loved, ranging from some bodily harm to something akin to some kind of disaster. So, it feels to me not like a justification, it seems that it is this primal urge that is driven by fear and fear's powerful, right? And sometimes it's there for good reasons, but in other cases it is not justified, and I think that's where things get confused for people with hoarding.