Interviewer: You mentioned the kind of like nesting or space kind of creation way of thinking about hoarding, and I mean there is a normal kind of degree of variance in the kinds of spaces that people like to inhabit. Like some people might enjoy a very clear desk, other people might really like to have clutter on their desk and have them feel productive and you know, so I guess how do you think about hoarding disorder in that way? Do you feel like its, that that kind of, that hoarding is a way of creating a comfortable space? Do you see that in your patients? Is that part of how you think about the use of space in hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, I suppose I see it more probably than even just space, I think. The sociologist in me thinks a lot about the idea of home and how people make home and how objects serve as one way for people to make home, but that there's a whole body of literature in sociology about being builders and the nesting piece that we talked about within hoarding is not far from this idea of the usefulness of objects for building, this construct in sociology, and sometimes building is related to making home but sometimes people just build for the sake of building. And I don't mean that in quite the literal--so just to state that it's a construct. And so yes, I see it quite broadly and I think that the continuum is a long one and that we don't fully understand all of the elements, all of the variables, if you will. For example, cultural or geographic region variations in how people use space or the idea of building or building homes, I think we haven't begun to tap into understanding those pieces.
Interviewer: It is really amazing and cool that you bring that up. That's actually a project that I'm working on, I'm actually an anthropology student[INAUDIBLE] PhD, so one of the things that I'm working on is a way of looking at what hoarding disorder can teach us about building homes. So, if that's interesting to you, I don't have anybody that I'm working with on this in anthropology or sociology, so if you wanna talk about that at any point I would love to have somebody to work with on that because it's just been a fun, interesting side project--cuz that's exactly what a lot of this made me think of when I started to encounter it, is what, how those two kinds of ideas or literatures are related. Anyway, that's a side note.
Interviewee: Yeah, feel free to contact me about that work. I'm in a collaboration with, I think you're also talking with my colleague she's NAME who's a clinical psychologist at [INSTITUTION] and we are in a collaborative partnership with a third person who's name is NAME and he is a sociologist where I choose to have my academic life and social work, he's in sociology and we're writing a paper right now with some of these concepts in them called, "Making Room" is our working title, but yeah I'd be delighted. There's not a lot of conversation about this, so anytime you'd like feel free to reach out.