Interviewer: Yeah, so that's kind of along the lines of what I was going to ask you about. How do you distinguish between chronically progressive and kind of the normal sort of social life events, which happen to many people? Like your parents die and leave you a bunch of stuff, your children leave home and so you're now alone in the house, your marriage ends or your spouse dies and so you're more isolated? And do you as a clinician think that it's related to things like dementia, and therefore related to aging, and therefore that's why we see it as more prevalent in older adults? Or do you see it as progressive in more of a kind of social sense in the sense that people tend to have more items and be more isolated as they age?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think the demential piece is again an area that's really understudied and not well understood. I think anything that we have is, you know we have a few good studies but it's mostly hypothesis at this point. I think for me the normal life events against a back trap, again all of those vulnerabilities, against a back trap of those genetic predispositions for this and neurobiological features and factors that are brought to life means that certainly it can be present for a long time before it reaches the flashpoint, or it might be a slow...you know, the snowball rolling down the hill that gains this momentum and size as it goes. And I think we don't fully understand any of that yet, I think clinically the most important thing that we can do as part of our assessment is to take that decade by decade like history and really try to understand what were the best vulnerabilities for developing this problem. You know, if we can get approximate age of onset and then what does the chronicity look like and then what were the periods of worsening course, I think that would give us our best bet for hopefully someday earlier intervention and maybe prevention work, but we're such a long way from that.
Interviewer: Can you hear me okay?
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: Okay, that's the last little list we have for you, and now I'd like to get into the more kind of conversational portion of our interview. Could you just begin by giving me a brief overview in terms of your background related to hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Sure, so for the past nine years, I have worked in a community agency doing individual group treatments for hoarding disorder. I also work in a care facility and am currently doing research and treatment and on creating an assessment to care planning method for hoarding disorder in care settings. I also work as a clinical social worker doing private practice, individual or family work with people with hoarding disorder.
Interviewer: Okay, and your educational background?
Interviewee: I have a master's in social work and a bachelor's in psychology.
Interviewer: Okay. Okay, so the first thing I'd like to talk to you about in this interview is about how you distinguish hoarding disorder from other kind of behaviors that are more on the spectrum of normalcy and how you diagnose it? Do you diagnose people with hoarding disorder clinically?
Interviewee: No.