Interviewer: Now I'd like to talk more specifically about the DSM-IV criteria themselves. Thinking about the diagnosis of hoarding and the criteria for the diagnosis of hoarding, are there any particular elements that kind of off the top of your head you think of as particularly difficult to apply or that different clinicians might apply differently or might be particularly subjective?
Interviewee: Well I think that the DSM-IV doesn't really take into account other settings. Like, you may see hoarding disorder or hoarding behavior, so I have to often...even though somebody had hoarding behaviors in the community but no one ever really diagnosed them, and if they come into a care setting like a long-term care setting or a hospital, they're still having that hoarding behavior and the difficulty discarding, but they wouldn't meet the criteria because their space isn't cluttered because they're living in a care home, but they still would have hoarding disorder. So, I think there's a lack of looking at the INAUDIBLE spaces with the diagnosis. So, I think people could still have hoarding disorder or difficulties, like same symptoms without being assessed as having the actual disorder. And you know, for many services you have to be diagnosed with something in order to meet the criteria for service, so that's unfortunate. I also think there's a lack of practitioners that can diagnose and feel comfortable diagnosing it. Like in the area where I live there's nobody working with hoarding disorder, there's no psychiatrists or psychologists working with hoarding disorder that have any sort of understanding or experience. So, clients can't see somebody that can diagnose them with something because of the lack of experience with professionals. I have no idea if I answered your whole question LAUGHS.
Interviewer: Yeah, no you totally did. It sounds like particularly you're talking about the part of the DSM-IV that says, "The difficulty discarding possessions results the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use," and it sounds like your problem with this is that people sometimes don't have control over their spaces, and so their active living areas aren't technically compromised and so they don't meet this criteria and so then they don't get the diagnosis, even though they exhibit all of the behaviors and ideation that go along with hoarding disorder. Does that seem right?
Interviewee: Yes, that's right.
Interviewer: Yeah I mean that is a question that I have about the DSM-IV as well and I was gonna ask you in particular, in situations like this how you make a judgement about whether you would consider them a person with hoarding disorder when this criteria isn't met, and it sounds like what you're saying is for you this criteria isn't a deal breaker. That they might not have congested and cluttered active living areas, but that they still might be a person with hoarding disorder. Does that?
Interviewee: Yeah, exactly. So, you know if they have the difficulty discarding, trouble with decision-making, all the other things, I think that they still may have hoarding disorder but because we can't get a diagnosis I kind of differentiate hoarding behavior and hoarding disorder because we can't have a diagnosis, but I see this often in my work.