Rebecca: Many of that we're gonna talk about more in just a minute. I'm gonna move through the criteria now and read you a phrase, and then we'll talk about the issues kind of as they come up. And, you know, I just want to hear as I read you the phrase what you think about when you apply this particular part of the criteria. The first part is persistent difficult discarding or parting with possessions regardless of their actual value, and that really reminds me of the conversation we just had about how you determine actual value when you're in a, for instance, the example you gave where things are being sold to a chop shop and everybody is kind of scrambling for small amounts of money. So, what, how do you go about deciding if an item is valuable or not in that context and whether there is kind of inappropriate attachment versus appropriate attachment?
Interviewee: Yeah, that's a very complicated question depending on who you ask, right, you get a very different answer. So my objective assessment, or seemingly objective assessment, is not objective at all of course because I'm influenced by my own cultural elements and all of those things play into this, right, so depending on who's making that assessment about the value of objects and certainly if you talk to the person who's doing the saving and the hoarding of those objects, they often are not of limited value and the monetary or market value is one value and it seems to be, in some ways, the implicit value that we assign as part of the diagnostic criteria. So I think other values are considered, but probably not equally so yeah, I think that phrase is really dependent on who's doing the assessment. 
Rebecca: And I guess what I'm wondering also is is the kind of lack of value or lack of selectivity a central component of hoarding disorder? I mean, can you hoard all of only one item? Can your house be full of cuckoo clocks and you have hoarding disorder? Or is the disorder necessary for the disorder? Does that make sense?
Interviewee: Yeah, well I don't, I would say that if the number of whatever the one object is is causing interference and it meets the rest of the criteria, probably I would say one item is sufficient, though it would be hard to imagine how the rest of the criteria would be met with that.