Rebecca: And I want to be respectful of your time, so if you have to go at any point please just let me know, I'm pretty much at my last question. So, when you typically encounter hoarders, how long do they say that their behavior has been going on?
Interviewee: Well...I mean the, I was part of the clinical trial, I was a study therapist on the [INAUDIBLE 1:08:27] trial, from which the data emerged that people begin saving and [INAUDIBLE 1:08:35]. And so I treated a whole pile of people who described this behavior starting, you know, around 13, 14, 15 years old and just having what we clinically describe as a chronic and worsening course. I would say that's the vast majority of the people that I've treated, and if not in their teens certainly by their late teens and early twenties they have some awareness that it was causing impairment as they were at college or beginning to live autonomously away from their families of origin. And the piece that's very interesting to me over and over again is that yeah there were all these pre-disposing sort of bits that were there from childhood, and then there are these real markers of things, moments in life where things got much worse and then it plateaued, and then there was this other thing and oh yeah it got much worse again; so, sort of these flashpoint, if you will. I will say I've also treated a handful of people who've described a much, not much but a couple of decades later onset of the problem. So, they sort of mark the beginnings in their 30s and 40s, much later than the typical age of onset, and because it has a chronic and worsening course, you know we see a whole pile of it, especially involuntary clients, in older adults years. But most of the people, and I don't work primarily with older adults, I'm sometimes called in to consul on those cases, but I think that the idea that it just doesn't get better without intervention, and because it is a problem that primarily occurs behind closed doors and homes and until very recently and in most cases we are still doing a terrible job of assessing for this in an outpatient way. You know, you go to the doctor and nobody's asking you if there's clutter in your home or if you can use the rooms in your home for the purpose intended, and so it can remain this very hidden problem. And because of the shame and stigma, people become more and more isolated in the problem. And so I think, unless they actually ask for help or come forwards, figuring out the progression of this is very tricky business.