Interviewer: So, kind of the same sort of difficulty judging the importance or prioritizing in speech as they might have with objects.
Interviewee: Yes, exactly.
Interviewer: So, now I'd like to talk about the criteria in the DSM which says, "This difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them." So, I guess I'm wondering how you asses that kind of degree of distress associated with discarding? Especially because people might deny distress, so it may be purely hypothetical distress, so they might be more distressed at their behavior--I guess first of all, how do you make that assessment?
Interviewee: Yeah, so when discussing about what to discard, if clients have difficulty knowing where to start of what items to discard. So, they may look at like a newspaper from 10 years ago the same as they would a brand new book. So, they don't know what to discard, they have no starting point so when they start to think about discarding you can tell by body language that they're having difficulty even deciding what item to pick up and then getting distressed when thinking about what to do with it. So, it's not just about like, "I'm gonna get rid of...in this table I'm gonna pick up all the garbage and throw the garbage away," but what is garbage and what isn't garbage. So, I think that is a distress because when they try to make a decision, they just kind of shut down and they can't make that decision. So, they have difficulty knowing where to start, and then the anxiety that they get. So, a lot of times they'll do self-talk like, "well I guess I could get rid of this," or "I could use this for this" or you know, they can't really make that one decision quickly. They have to kind of go through the motions of what if. They always talk about what ifs, and I know they're starting to get distressed when they're thinking about all the possibilities. When they're trying to make a decision it's, "what could go wrong." They start catastrophizing, you know, "if I got rid of this item," kind of think about the worst possible thing that could happen, instead of just, "I'm getting rid of it and then it's out of my head." And then they will start to ruminate on the possibility that they made a mistake if they do make a decision, so that's kind of how I measure distress. They may not say, "I'm distressed" or that they have difficulty, but the length of time even to make a decision is telling.
Interviewer: Do you have patients that deny that they would be distressed if they discarded? So, you're sitting with a patient and you say, "Well if you were to throw out this news paper, would it distress you?" And they would say, "No, I would be fine throwing it out," do you have that interaction with patients? Or is it--
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: How do you feel with that? How do you kind of push on that? Do you ask them to then discard it, or?
Interviewee: Yeah, basically.