Rebecca: Sorry, so the last of the criteria that I'd like to talk through with you is about distress and it's gonna move us into a conversation about insight that you've kind of already foreshadowed, and the criteria reads, "this difficulty is due to a perceived need to save the items and to distress associated with discarding them." And so the question that I have is about how you're determining distress in this context? If a patient has very low insight and doesn't think that their hoarding is a problem, you know, denies that they are at all distressed and says they're perfectly happy with their space the way that it is, how is the distress kind of criteria met or if the person says they're not impaired, how do you determine what constitutes impairment?
Interviewee: Yeah I think the distress question is slightly more difficult than the impairment question. I think often times it is the collateral context, the people around the person with hoarding that are the distress markers, if you will. So they are the family members or the housing inspector or the child welfare organization, are the markers of distress so they are the ones who are bothered by the saving and the manifestation of the objects, and sometimes in the face of that evidence in clinical interview I have been successful in having clients acknowledge at least why others might be distressed, even if they are not distressed. So they continue to deny their own, but are willing to say, "yes I hear it from other people and I can see why they would be bothered and/or worried." So that's one path that I take in clinical interview for assessment purposes of distress. I think the measures--and I would say that the measures that we have, the standardized measures, you know the hoarding rating scale or the saving inventory revise very little in these ways. They do more in the area of impairment if the person has some amount of insight, but we know that insight of course, or lack thereof, is part of the pathology of this problem. It's also fluctuating, right, so in any given moment a person may be able to say, "yes this is deeply impairing and deeply distressing" and in the very next moment they may deny both of those things, again as part of the illness. So I think both, for me clinically, both distress and impairment is part of my clinical interview more than, I come at those things through the clinical interview more than I use those standardized assessments. I don't think what we have available right now does a very good job.