Interviewer: So, some outside influence or else like an actual health impact on their life.
Interviewee: Yes.
Interviewer: So, there's a really interesting paper that describes kind of lack of insight in this population, and it breaks the idea down into four constructs and I'd like to read you the constructs and have you kind of comment on whether or not you think that these are relevant to the patients that you see, and what you think are the most relevant. So, the construct are defensiveness, anosognosia, which is defined as the lack of ability to perceive and illness or that something is wrong or causing distress. The third one is overvalued ideation, which is kind of the persistent belief that the value of items is more than it is in reality, and then the final one is indifference. Of those four, and I'll read them again--defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation and indifference--do you feel like some of them are more relevant and some are less relevant? Or do you see them all? Do you see none of them?
Interviewee: Defensiveness, depending on how people come to me but yeah I think they're usually trying to give a reason as to why things are happening. Like why they're keeping something, or why it's not a problem and why other people shouldn't perceive it as a problem, they're I=kind of defending their behavior. I don't know whether or not, you know I often find that people are like that or are defensive because of past bad experiences they've had. When I explore it further with them, they have to become defensive because other people have said things like, "This is disgusting" or "how can you live like this?" So they immediately become defensive, but if often you have a good relationship with the person, you talk things further, they can get to the place where they understand that it's a problem, but their first reaction is defensiveness and it's usually because something bad has happened. I think often yeah they do have like a lack of ability to understand that there are risks, there are problems involved with what they're doing, until something else happens or somebody gets involved.
Interviewer: Thinking about particularly anosognosia and overvalued ideation, I'm wondering if these are things you see in your patients. So I guess anosognosia might be a little bit more like you really look at a space and you don't see the stuff, you know what I mean? Like it looks normal to you.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Interviewer: Whereas overvalued ideation almost sounds like a delusion or something where you look at the stuff and you really truly believe that it has value beyond what's rational. Do you see those two kind of ideas in your patients?
Interviewee: I don't really see like my clients going into a space and seeing it as being normal. I've never really seen that, they often can understand...like they might not see the full risk of it or the full problem as other people would, but they don't ever, I've never had a client that looks at a really cluttered space and thinks that there is no problem. They do see something, and this is why they're not letting people into their house.