Rebecca: We're gonna talk a little bit more about that later. In fact, the next section of the interview we're gonna talk a little bit about the specific DSM-V criteria, and as I move into that section of the interview, I wonder if at the outside there are particular elements of the DSM-V criteria that you think might be particularly difficult to apply or that you've thought on clinical judgement they might be applied differently by different clinicians in different places. Does anything spring to mind about the criteria off the top of your head?
Interviewee: I was working really closely with [NAME 29:26] when the criteria was developed for field trial actually. So, the first thing that comes to mind, which has been a longstanding conversation, is the distress or impairment in functioning criteria, so that "or" is an interesting one there. And of course reflects the egosyntonic vs egodystonic nature of hoarding and all of the controversy that kind of comes up around that, and I think in some ways we put that discussion to bed, but in other ways I think it's really still quite a central question. Not so much is a disorder a disorder if it is egosyntonic, but what does it mean when it is egosyntonic in terms of things like insight and motivation for treatment? So that's one piece, I think another piece that's really interesting to me, and has been since the time of sort of looking at that criteria, is acquisition as a specifier and I'm thinking more broadly about the relationship to compulsive buying sort of the works that [NAME 30:47] is doing and the models of compulsive buying and how we understand. Certainly buying is only one form of acquisition, but what the interrelationship is between those two things, especially given the impulse-control problem that is inherent in acquisition that is different in other elements of hoarding behavior. We don't see quite that same impulse-control problem, or at least manifesting in the same way. And then the third thing that I would say is this differential piece between, that the hoarding is better accounted for by other medical or mental health, you know physical or mental health problems and I think, you know, dementia is a whole place, brain injury is a whole place where actually doing the differential diagnosis to understand what the driver is is really complicated, and I don't think the structured energy for hoarding disorder as it currently stands or any of our other assessments, they weren't developed to help us make those differentials. So, I think we're really locked, I think, in those domains.