Rebecca: So, literature on hoarding disorder kind of says it tends to be older people who are people with hoarding problems, and I guess I'm wondering do you feel like it's because it's a progressive disorder, so it worsens with age, maybe with cognitive decline? Or do you feel like that's more related to their life course in terms of their parents have died, they've inherited things, their children have left their home, or their spouses died, or they've gotten divorced and now they--it's not that the behavior necessarily has gotten worse so much as their life has changed to the point that the management of objects has gotten out of control? Like due to mobility issues just with having a house and accumulating stuff within it, or maybe both?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it's a little bit of both but I think it's usually, like for my clients I have clients that are 18 to 90-something years old, and I think that all of the older clients can talk about that they did have some of the behaviors and the tendencies until something happened, and I think it's accumulation of the objects or major stressors that have caused backsliding. You know, they often will talk about how they tried to manage it or that they tried to keep things clear and they tried to work on their discarding, and then something else has happened. So I think when they're adults there's also accumulation of stuff, the life events that have happened, they're also accumulating a lot of the times stuff of their children or grandchildren that lived in their home, they're also dealing with major life stressors that may be contributing to the difficulties that they're having. They also have mobility and other health issues that are involved, so they can't do the same things that they used to do like move things around or get rid of things. They may not be driving, but I think that it may not be that the actual hoarding or the actual feelings or attachment has gotten worse with older adults, I think it's accumulation of what's happened in their life. Like the life events and the accumulation of items, because my clients that are 18 can talk about items the same way and have the same feelings as somebody in their 80s. And usually the older adults don't have the outside influence of their parents or spouse or partner, roommates that are stopping them from over cluttering. You know, they're usually living alone or they're in their own space so that they're able to accumulate in a way. They're not having like that outside influence.
Rebecca: So it sounds like the impulse may be the same, but it's a lot of social factors that turn it into a bigger problem for older adults. So, younger people might have hoarding behavior and might have the kind of ideation that goes along with it. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yes. In some cases I do have some younger clients that they are having, like their houses are so filled that they can't use spaces and would meet the DSM diagnosis, but they also have other factors too like they do have health issues. They may have fibromyalgia, they may have IBS or some other medical issues that make it difficult for them to manage everything.
Rebecca: Well I really appreciate your time today, that's the last question that I had.