Interviewer: Okay, so now I'd like to move into the more kind of conversational portion of our interview, and just to start out if you wouldn't mind introducing yourself in terms of your background related to hoarding disorder, your education and how you encounter individuals with hoarding disorder at work.
Interviewee: I was trained at INSTITUTION under NAME, and so I've been working exclusively through my doctoral and post-doc and the beginning of my career work in the area of hoarding site 2005. This is both my area of research as well as my area of clinical practice, and I'm currently an associate professor in Vancouver, British Columbia at INSTITUTION. My work currently is primarily as a researcher, though I provide clinical supervision, I'm not providing direct clinical practice at the moment but I'm clinically supervising students and I'm also someone who does a lot of training and consultation. So I'm invited into communities around the world to provide clinical training, CBT for hoarding as well as other more community-based interventions using INAUDIBLE and cage management, and my research has been the area that communities respond to this problem when it becomes a public health and safety perspective. So, when it kind of crosses the line from being a private mental health problem to becoming more, that's my area of research.
Interviewer: And for how long have you encountered hoarding patients, either through your research or through your clinical practice?
Interviewee: Since 2005.
Interviewer: Okay, so for the first portion of the interview we're going to be talking about the ways that clinicians identify patients with hoarding disorder. And just to begin I'd like to ask you, for you what are the most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps collecting or any kind of normal saving, and hoarding disorder? Is it a spectrum? Are there clear delineators and if so, what are they?
Interviewee: I see clear differentiation between concepts like collecting and hoarding, or someone who is just a bit untidy, if you will, versus someone who has hoarding behavior if not meeting diagnostic criteria, and for me there's a couple of pieces there. One is certainly about the volume of possessions, but that's only important in the context of the ability to carry out daily life activities. So I think you cross the line when you've got interference in carrying out ADLs and that accompanied by these strong beliefs and emotions certainly sets someone who is collecting or someone who is a bit untidy apart from someone with hoarding behavior. So I think pure physical manifestation is dangerous, I think we can't make an assessment based on that alone, especially when we're talking about diagnostic levels of hoarding. I think you have to consider those other features as well.
Interviewer: Can you think of an example of a case that was challenging for you to diagnose or that you felt was borderline or was an interesting sort of challenge to decide if it indeed constituted hoarding disorder or not? Have you ever encountered a case like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, you know so it was not a question of--it was a differential diagnosis, the most interesting case but maybe that's a different question. Are you asking me only about did I know if it was hoarding or not hoarding? Or hoarding vs something else?