Rebecca: Yeah, so another problem that you might've encountered is distinguishing hoarding disorder from often comorbid and related disorders, like depression or OCD.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, I think the cases of hoarding if I have the kind of clinical information that I was just telling you about, I don't feel like I've struggled very much in those domains. But sometimes I'm called by a community organization and they describe a dwelling to me and I haven't had the opportunity to talk to the person or conduct clinical assessments, I find those nearly impossible because I refuse to sort of say something just based on the volume of possessions alone, but I think the more difficult clinical decisions for me have been differential diagnostic decisions and I can think immediately of one case where there was the saving of rather bizarre items, and I was differentially trying to diagnose whether the hoarding was secondary to OCD or whether hoarding was primary and there were two primary co-occurring conditions. It was very tricky, I think the number of cases where we have hoarding in the context of OCD and kind of bizarre saving are limited. You know, they don't number many overall, so I find those very tricky to figure out what the driver is, what the obsessions and compulsions are. The other situation that I currently am working in and is of great interest to me from a research perspective, but having to do with diagnostics is hoarding in cases of severe substance abuse. So, in downtown east side of Vancouver, in the single room occupancy, SRO housing, there's a very very high drug-use rate, opioids largely and hoarding in SROs is overwhelming, this portion of the city and it's very tricky to figure out if the hoarding is secondary to the substance abuse, if it is a more primal sort of animal kind of instinct hoarding, you know the nesting kind of hoarding that Stephanie Preston has written about, or whether it's primary hoarding. And if it is primary hoarding, is it for, you know, for a means to an end of living because these people are in such obvious poverty. So, those conditions where it's not only a co-occurring other diagnostic problem like substance abuse, but the social elements of life I think really complicate diagnosis sometimes. 
Rebecca: So when you say social elements of life, you mean, for instance, poverty and worry about not having enough to eat later so therefore saving things now, that sort of thing. 
Interviewee: Yeah, more particularly I'm thinking of it's very common for people from SROs to save things for their chop shops and so it's very hard in a room to know if what's being saved is actually, there's attachment to it and/or if it's a means to a way of life. And if the person is using substances, making that assessment is next to impossible actually.