Rebecca: Okay, I'm gonna start by asking you kind of broad questions, and then I'd like to ask you a little bit about the specific DNS-IV criteria, although I know you don't necessarily use them in diagnosis, I assume you're really familiar with them. Is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah.
Rebecca: Just to begin with as a broad first question, for you what are the most important differences between things that are on the spectrum of normal saving behavior, even thinking about something like extreme collecting, and hoarding disorder? How do you differentiate?
Interviewee: Um, so it would be the...like the emotional attachment to the item, usually people that have just collecting behaviors don't feel that emotional connection to the object, they look at the object differently. So, generally when people want to get rid of something, if they don't have hoarding disorder they can get rid of it with little help or a little bit of time. People with hoarding disorder will get extreme amounts of anxiety when they think about or try to discard something. So, that's the biggest difference is the emotional attachment and the feelings regarding the item.
Rebecca: Is there a different in terms of--
Interviewee: And it's also--sorry. A lot of times it's not just one type of item. Like with collectors, collectors will collect like certain things but people with hoarding disorder will usually, it'll be random items. So, it could be different types of items, not just one type.
Rebecca: So, it sounds like individuals who are collectors will not have the same degree of emotional attachment and will not have the same kind of emotional reaction to discarding, whereas individuals with hoarding disorder have a strong emotional attachment and also individuals with hoarding disorder tend not to gravitate to certain kinds of items, they tend to be more indiscriminate. 
Interviewee: Yes.
Rebecca: Have you ever encountered an individual that you felt was a borderline case, or somebody who you were kind of not sure about whether they would fit this diagnosis or not, and can you tell me a little bit about a case like that?
Interviewee: Yeah, so I [INAUDIBLE 12:33] mostly because families are involved or because of the space. You know, a lot of my clients don't actually meet clinical diagnosis, or wouldn't meet a clinical diagnosis because they may live in a facility that has certain rules or certain guidelines, or they may live with their family members or have been working on their hoarding disorder for long periods of time, but they still have the emotional attachment to objects and they still have the anxiety and the difficulty discarding and trouble with organization, so they still have all of the trouble that goes along with the hoarding disorder, but their space may not meet the diagnosis. So, you know, it may not be significantly cluttered to the point that they can't use certain spaces in their home, but they still have the difficulties discarding and you know, they may have acquiring issues but they may still be managing it. So, they may still be suffering from the symptoms of hoarding disorder, but not actually meet a diagnosis. So, I will get clients like that often.