Interviewer: So there's a whole conversation I'd like to have with you about insight and what exactly that means, and I'm not sure we're gonna have time for it today but it sounds like what you're saying is that a lot of times it may seem like an individual doesn't have insight because they're not admitting that they have a problem, but they may actually be more aware of their problem but just be unable to admit it because admitting it would kind of seem to push them to take some kind of action or to be judged somehow. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, and some people don't necessarily want mental health treatment, you know like in the case of I want to hold onto my housing. You know, "I'm not necessarily interested in mental health treatment, I want to hold onto my housing." So, that's very different from somebody who's in mental health care already in addressing the issue of insight. I guess when I'm thinking of insight I'm thinking around the DSM specifically, so I'm thinking about how do people kind of what do they say in terms of what do they recognize in terms of labeling and what accounts perhaps for that as well.
Interviewer: Right, right.
Interviewee: I think the other things is that, so there's comorbidity that come out with hoarding around depression, around OCD and so forth and I think that sometimes there's confusion in the field around that in terms of what is what. People are so focused on the clutter, what's secondary to... what's actually hoarding and what is secondary to other mental health or physical health problem. The other thing that comes up is issues around trauma, so how does trauma kind of fit in. So, you know, some of the comorbidity research shows that there's a low rate of PTSD. Folks I've met with will talk about a traumatic event, it doesn't mean that it's PTSD and there's some myths out there that trauma causes hoarding and the research doesn't really support that. So I think that can affect the diagnosing a bit and the issues around the criteria a bit in terms of the role of trauma.
Interviewer: Can you think of a challenging case where you were unsure if something was truly hoarding disorder or either another mental health disorder or something that's on the spectrum of hoarding behavior? Have you ever had that experience with a person who potentially had hoarding?
Interviewee: Yeah, I think it depends sometimes on what our role is, right. So we talk about this in training a bit, we'll show people a picture and they're sure it's hoardingS. They're sure it's squalor and hoarding, and just because it looks like that in terms of clutter doesn't mean it's specific to the DSM criteria around hoarding, right. So, there could be a lot of reasons that there could be squalor or clutter in their environment that may not be specifically hoarding. Can you repeat your question again?