Interviewer: So that's the last list that I have for you. How are we doing on time, do you have to run?
Interviewee: I'm okay, I sent actually an email just to say that I'm gonna be a few minutes late so if it's 10 minutes more I'll be okay.
Interviewer: Yeah, so let's have you tell me a little bit about your background just very briefly in terms of your training and how you see individuals with hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Sure, so I'm a trained psychologist and social worker and I came to my work with hoarding actually through work with OCD first and then began working more with people with hoarding over time. I think based on my earlier experiences, some people found it very frustrating to work with people with hoarding, I more challenging but fascinating as well. So I kind of move in that direction and was much more [INAUDIBLE] kind of behavioral therapy training or ERP to start with back in the day before [INAUDIBLE] and [NAME] developed more specialized treatment and kind of moved more into that model. And then I've kind of expanded into multiple models in terms of thinking about various domains and working in housing and public health and other areas as well. So, have kind of like expanded out in that, but definitely come from a mental health background in terms of training.
Interviewer: So now I'd like to talk to you about the ways that you diagnose hoarding disorder, and specifically about the DSM-IV criteria. Please cut us off when you have to go and I'll follow up over email, and if we can find another time that's great, but I want to get as far as we can get but let me know when you're out of time, okay?
Interviewee: Yeah, no problem.
Interviewer: Okay. So, thinking about the DSM-IV criteria specifically, are there any aspect of the DSM-IV specifically off the top of your head that you regard as kind of difficult to apply or that you thought perhaps rely on clinical judgement or that you worry that different clinicians might apply differently?
Interviewee: That's a good question, I think the fact that acquisition is a specifier as opposed to one of the core criteria can potentially be, it's not difficult to use but at the same time I think that could be confusing to some in terms of how to apply it, especially in the community in terms of using it as opposed to kind of research focused. And also I think in terms of insight, where sometimes there's some confusion in terms of where some clients feel pushed against the wall so they'll seem reluctant or seem like they're not recognizing what the issue is, but there's a lot of shame and other experiences that they've had, so it's not really that they totally lack insight, but to actually...I don't want to say admit a problem but to like speak to it a certain way makes them feel like they're gonna have to comply with their things and it's scary in terms of having, what are their rights in that scenario or the dynamics of the family and so forth as well.