Rebecca: Right, right, right, cuz everybody just has less space to live, that's interesting. I also want to ask you about this idea of intended use. So we could imagine a healthy person who, for example, has a spare bed room that they use for storage, or doesn't cook and therefore doesn't use their kitchen for cooking, but instead uses it for storage. So I wonder how you think about this concept of compromising intended use. Like, who's intended use and how do you make judgments about whether that's appropriate or not?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, I think that's a really good question. When we think about intended use, I think it probably does kind of come from this, I guess societal, just in general what do we use a kitchen for, what was that designed for, when someone built that home, that apartment, they thought that you would be cooking in it. But, then again, that is not obviously taking the person's view point into consideration or like their own experience and their values and if they don't care about cooking or that's not something they ever want to do, you know, is that compromising the use? I think for the intended use, like the same thing can come up with OCD, for example, like if someone is fearful of starting a fire because of the stove, they might not use their stove or their kitchen for cooking whatsoever. It doesn't mean that it's cluttered, but they're still not using it and so the OCD has compromised the room's use, but then I've had people say, "Well I don't care about cooking, it has no value in cooking at all so I don't even want to work on that because that's not a value of mine," and so I could see how that could come up. I think with hoarding disorder what we think about is if someone moved or lived with a family member who wasn't struggling with hoarding or you know, or if we were to think about what is the typical use of a kitchen, to cook, or a bedroom to sleep, I think that even if an individual suggests that that's not how they intend to use it, I think the way we've looked at it is that intended use is more like the blueprint. Like what did the architect intend for this space to be used and how was that planned to be used or maybe even how did they plan to use it originally. Maybe when they first moved into the home they did a little bit of cooking, or maybe they ate at their table but now they're not eating. So, I think I do like to, especially when this is just clinical practice and not a research study, I do like to kind of obviously meet the person where they're at and if they don't care about the kitchen or they don't care about cooking, maybe they care about being able to host people in their living room and have a space for people to sit and enjoy the conversation or something like that. So, kind of looking at what uses or what are they not doing in their home that they would like to do, and then focusing on that, especially when we're looking at just treatment in a community setting and not like placing my own values on somebody. Like, kitchens need to be used for cooking and focusing more on that. But in terms of diagnosis, I know that's what we're talking about, it's an interesting question. There's a little bit of a bias in thinking that others should be using their homes in a specific kind of way.