Rebecca: Yeah, so that was another question that I was going to ask you about, actually, you know because there does seem to be this disconnect that many people describe hoarding as starting at adolescence, but most hoarding patients, patients with hoarding disorder don't come into treatment until they're unfortunately middle aged or in middle age and I hear you saying that part of that is it takes them a while to acquire enough items to meet criteria. I wonder if you think that there could also be a social aspect to that trajectory, people's children moving out of their house or spouses either dying or leaving, do you feel like those social factors--or I mean, conversely, should we see hoarding perhaps as a progressive disorder that actually worsens with age? I wonder what your opinion is and where it kind of falls out.
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, you know anecdotally and from what we know, I think I tend to see it as more of a progressive disorder that tends to become exasperated or get worse over time, in general. I think that doesn't mean that that's always the case, though I think that's where more research is needed in terms of the role of like a traumatic experience. I mean there's some cases where someone maybe wasn't struggling with those symptoms at all and then they're 35 or 40 and then something happened, like a trauma might happen or some sort of stressful life event, and then they develop difficulties with the acquisition and discarding and the disorder comes from that. I think that happens less than what I know about the research, however it does happen. And so that is interesting how for some people it starts kind of insidiously at a young age and then just kind of progressively becomes exasperated, but for others it might not even be there until later in life and maybe a hypothesis is maybe some sort of event, stressor, trauma basically triggers a disorder for some personal reason. So I think that there might be a couple of ways that people can develop.
Rebecca: Mhhm, so it might just be later in life, yeah. I'd like to return really briefly just to the concept of insight. So there was this patient published about insight in hoarding disorder that broke the concept down into different constructs, and I'd just like to read you the constructs and see if you think any of them are more or less salient based on your clinical experience. So the construct of insight that the paper described were first defensiveness, second was anosognosia or just a lack of ability to perceive an illness or that something is wrong causing distress, the third one was overvalued ideation, which was defined as a persistent and unreasonable belief in the potential value of items that can range from mild to delusional in intensity, and the fourth one was indifference. So, again, we have defensiveness, anosognosia, overvalued ideation, and indifference, and I wonder if when you encounter patients that are having problems with insight, if you find one of those to be more common or more important?