Interviewer: Mhhm, mhmm. Okay, well I'm gonna move into the more conversational interview and we're gonna talk about a lot of the issues that came up in our list in more detail, but before we get started if you wouldn't mind just giving me like a...I don't know, two minute introduction to who you are and your training and background and how you came to be involved with patients with this disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, sure of course. So I'm a clinical psychologist and I am just out of my post-doc, so I pretty much [INAUDIBLE] last year, in the OCD and related disorders track and so that was specialized training in treating folks diagnosed with OCD and hoarding disorder [INAUDIBLE] primary to diagnosing that I focused on and um--but before then, so the reason I guess I can kind of share with you how I got there. So, in the beginning of my graduate school journey, I went to grad school in [INSTITUTION] in Portland, outside of Portland, Oregon and I was always interested in anxiety disorders in general and exposure therapy in particular and I knew that going into grad school and so I knew I wanted to get some training in that and when I was at [INSTITUTION] doing my grad school program, I basically I pursued those interests and it wasn't actually hoarding at that point, it was more like OCD and other social anxiety and disorders like that that I was primarily interested in, at first. And then I just joined a research team called The Anxiety Research Team where there was a vertical mentoring process happening, where some of the more advanced students were mentoring the kind of first and second year grad students and I was passed along some articles and I did some research projects around, more like lit reviews and small presentations for like community conferences or local conferences and things like that. But I started researching treatments for hoarding disorder, I guess at that point it wasn't even its own diagnosis yet when I first started grad school but for OCD and anxiety and I was pretty intrigued. I also found out during that time that those treatments really weren't available, so I think I got really passionate about really learning those treatments and learning how to provide those treatments well and being able to offer those treatments to the community, because so many people struggle to find services. I remember reading prolonged exposure for PTSD was the gold standard treatment, but yet nobody really [INAUDIBLE] and nobody really was offering it, not many psychologists provide exposure therapy in general, so I think I just became really passionate about learning about those treatments and specializing in those treatments. So, I got linked up to a community, essentially a private practice, but it was called The Anxiety and Panic Treatment Center in Portland, and I did my practicum, too, there and then I stayed working through clinical field work for the remainder of my grad training, in addition to doing other places because I enjoy it so much and I was learning quite a bit and I was doing work with folks with hoarding disorder as well as OCD and then I guess also other anxiety disorders, like panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, generalized anxiety disorder. There were two clinicians who kind of ran that clinic who were local experts and so I was able to learn a lot from them and also were able to provide people, in particular folks with hoarding disorder were able to provide in-home services. So, I was able to do in-home exposures and decluttering sessions with folks, whereas no one else in the community was doing that. So, we were like the only people in the Portland area who offered that service and it was really just me basically doing it for a while, or just the grad students basically, because we were able to offer a sliding scale and because we were more flexible we were able to actually go into the homes and do the exposures. So I got some experience there and I learned quite a bit from those experiences. I even was contracted or was, I don't know exactly, it wasn't official in that way but the county actually reached out to me and asked me to work with an individual who was threatened with eviction. And so the county, the county task force was also trying to find ways to solve kind of the public health problems that are associated with some individuals struggling with hoarding disorder. So I was kind of navigating that and learning about that and also at the same time trying to implement the CBT towards hoarding disorder, basically, in a couple of cases where I went out to people's homes. And form that I went to internship, which was at a VA and I didn't really do much with hoarding, I was more focused on PTSD, and then I kind of went to the post-doc at [NAME] lab and focused on supervising the various instructor's workshops that we have going. And then I did home decluttering and I did the in-home decluttering sessions myself with a couple of participants over several weeks, we did 10 sessions of in-home decluttering and then I also worked with some folks individually and I'm planning to eventually, I'm working in the clinic at [INSTITUTION] and I'm eventually hoping to start some hoarding [INAUDIBLE] or like CBT groups for hoarding so that's kind of my plan for the next year or two, is to try to get something set up there because of how limited the resources are and there just isn't a lot out there for folks struggling with this.