Rebecca: Right, so I guess that leads us really nicely into the next part of the interview because in the kind of next question is, you know, for this last criteria the difficulty is due to a perceived need to save and distress associated with discarding, I wonder how that is a part of the problem of insight. So, how does that distress manifest in somebody who just doesn't have insight into their disorder and how do you make a judgement as to whether they're not meeting criteria for hoarding disorder because they're not distressed, versus they do have hoarding disorder but they just don't have insight into the disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, that's a good question, I mean that's pretty hard, that's a hard call to make. I think ultimately I would look at if there isn't the distress, the subjective distress, I guess trying to find like is there impairment, is there functional impairment related to that perceived need to save and the difficulty discarding. So, if the person isn't impacted, if it isn't interfering even if the person is saying it's not really stressful or causing distress, but is it interfering to a significant degree and trying to speak or talk to the person about that. Like for example, one of the individuals I worked with who the county was threatening eviction, he didn't see any problem with his difficulty. He didn't experience distress, either related to that perceived need to save or the difficulty discarding. Well he did, but he didn't subjectively identify that as a problem, and so he had decided that there was distress when he was deciding to get rid of things, so he would keep them, and the excessive acquisition brought pleasure for him or it was something that he enjoyed doing, so the only piece that led to the impairment was someone from the outside saying that he had a problem. But they had power so they were the one threatening eviction, and so then even though he didn't have insight into his disorder, he didn't have insight into the difficulty. It actually had caused a lot of problems with his relationships, like he was estranged from his whole family but he didn't have insight that the hoarding was a part of that really, and so really the only area--he did agree with the fact that yeah this is causing distress and I will be impaired if I don't have a home to live in, I won't be able to do anything if I don't have a home, and so at that point, the diagnosis was still warranted because of the situation and because of the distress around that.