Interviewer: Mhhmm, that inflexibility.
Interviewee: Yeah, so I think that does maybe overlap some. I think maybe the difference in hoarding disorder or anxiety disorder or OCD is that, at least from the folks I've seen, it's not as fixed I guess. The overvalued ideation is there, but there's like enough flexibility in most people to try things differently. Unless there's like a comorbid OCPD or something there and then that might make things harder and that might have more to do with the comorbid diagnosis interacting with the treatment. But I think if that isn't there and it's just some overvalued ideation related to that perceived need to save, I think I would look at how fixed are their beliefs and are there--is it that the person is just really scared and there's a lot of anxiety? That could be the case so that they think that might be the case, or is it just like 100% just the way that it is, there's no arguing it. And with a delusion you never argue a delusion anyway, but there's no approaching it in any way shape or form. Most people I've worked with will at least approach it and will talk about it like, "Oh yeah, I can see that's a strong value, I can see how I really think that I am contributing to the plastic thing in the ocean; however I'm also seeing that if I do this this way, I'm never going to be able to get through all these papers, you know, I'm never going to be able to do this if I do it 100% right all the time" so maybe there's some flexibility that's incorporated, even though I still strongly believe that I want to be an environmentally conscious person and I want to for the most part just try to think appropriately and recycle and then that's where I would see there's like some flexibility and it's not completely like, "I have to do it this way and we're not doing it any differently" and I think that might be one piece that might help.
Interviewer: Okay, I want to acknowledge that we're definitely at an hour, I have three more questions for you, do you mind sticking with it for three more questions?
Interviewee: Yeah, not at all, that's fine.