Rebecca: So for this last question, this is again kind of like a conceptual question for you, we've talked a lot throughout the interview about reasons that people give for their hoarding behavior, and I'm wondering if for you, just in your own thinking about this disorder, if those reasons are true motivators or if they're kind of post hoc justifications for an underlying, perhaps, biological need. So, another way of asking this question might be to say, which comes first, the behavior and then they justify it by saying, "Oh the environment, oh I'm afraid of forgetting, oh I might use those" or are the thoughts actually driving the behavior?
Interviewee: Yeah, that's a really good question. Of course that would be a great research question, I don't--yeah I think that's hard. I think that from what I've seen, people when they're acquiring or having difficulty discarding, it does seem to really ring true to their values of whatever those things are. So if it's someone who cares about the environment, it does seem like in the moment when we're doing an exposure, that that really is what's happening. That the act of discarding this will make the person feel anxiety and a part of that might also be that there's maybe a biological vulnerability or sensitivity, just like all anxiety disorders, and that learning component. So maybe I'm more vulnerable to feeling a need to acquire and also more vulnerable to want to keep things because I feel like I want to remember, maybe I'm more of a sentimental person. So there might be some distress associated with thinking about getting rid of something, and then as a solution there might be this avoiding discarding, right. Like, "Oh I don't want to deal with that" so maybe it's an anxiety sensitivity thing or an emotional sensitivity thing. Like, I just feel more distressed than the average person when I think about discarding these things, so I avoid doing it. And maybe there might be some post hoc reasoning or rationalizing of it after the fact, so it might be a combination of the two. I think there very well could be, although I think in a way it's almost like the avoidance behavior of discarding leads to all the clutter, it's just kind of a way that people might learn to cope with the distress that's associated with the need to discard, given just the environment. Like if someone had a huge home and all the money in the world, there wouldn't be as much of a need to go through and to discard things, and so that might be a different situation. But the fact is that most people do need to find things and have trouble finding things and so there might be behavioral reasons why people avoid or cope with that that kind of lead in the long term to this trap. You can avoid discarding things for a while, but ultimately if you think of a bathtub that doesn't have a drain, it's just eventually gonna overflow and then that's just going to become even more overwhelming. And so that behavior worked in the short-run, maybe they avoided feeling bad for a while, they avoided that distress and now we're in a situation that's maybe much worse. So in a way it's almost like, the way I look at or conceptualize it, the way I like to conceptualize all maladaptive behavioral responses to an emotional problem is just that it's a solution, for the moment, it's usually a short-term solution that someone comes up with, like it's either from anxiety like you'd see some avoidance behavior, you know, "I'm just gonna avoid doing that or going to that place or looking through my items or discarding" but that only provides short-term relief because at the end of the day, the distress is still there. The person still experiences distress when thinking about discarding, and then they haven't discarded for 20 years and now the problem is just so much worse that the distress is just exacerbated and increased. So that's the way I tend to conceptualize it, is that its their learned behavior based on that biological vulnerability or that biological kind of maybe anxiety sensitivity or emotion sensitivity as it relates to in this case hoarding, or acquisition and discarding.
Rebecca: Well I really appreciate your time today, that's all the questions that I had.