Interviewer: Right, right. I'd like to quickly drill a little bit deeper into this concept of insight. So, as I'm sure you know, the literature surrounding hoarding disorder often describes hoarders as having low insight, and I'm wondering how you as a clinician define the term insight?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah that's a really good question. With insight I think how I determine insight is like the ability for an individual to recognize or yeah, to recognize that something is an issue or a problem, ultimately. So, this can come up in OCD a lot as well, you know, or this is actually another example that's related, like if someone is having relationship OCD or like is experiencing obsessions about their relationship, they might not see those thoughts as obsessive necessarily, because they might seem valid or warranted. Like, "Oh this person's bothering me, maybe I sue this person, that's something that I should actually consider." So, in that way a person with OCD might not recognize that that's actually OCD and we need to target that in treatment as OCD, and so if they're not going to conceptualize it as OCD, we can't do exposure therapy and we can't treat it in the way we treat other OCD symptoms. So it would be very similar with hoarding disorder, if someone is not seeing that the clutter is an issue and is not able to have insight into the way that it's impacting them, and I think that's ultimately what I think of insight, I think about there being a disconnect between like the consequences. Like I guess not realizing or understanding the consequences of the behavior, so that an individual doesn't actually see their difficulty discarding as leading to relationship issues or leading to issues with them working or doing their hobbies. Like there's that kind of lack of insight into the ways that the problems are impacting them, is kind of how I conceptualize it. I know that insight, and actually somebody on our team who's a psychiatrist and again I'm a psychologist, he approaches insight differently and I missed his talk but he was just talking about the brain structures and the ways that the research on insight in general on different psychiatric disorders and how the brain, you know, what circuits might be related to loss of insight or a lack of insight in different disorders.