Rebecca: And we're gonna talk through this criteria in a little bit more detail. I'm also wondering how you make distinctions, or if it's ever tricky to make distinctions between hoarding disorder and other possibly comorbid disorders, specifically depression and OCD. Do you ever have difficulty in kind of discriminating between a hoarding disorder patient and an OCD patient and a depressed patient?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, definitely. I think it's important to know, especially with OCD, to know OCD well and when you're--because of course hoarding, difficulty discarding possessions can definitely be a part of OCD, even now they could still be a part of OCD, even though hoarding disorder has its own separate diagnosis. So, I think being careful and when you're looking at differentiating between OCD and hoarding disorder, for example, making sure that hoarding is the primary issue and is basically what the person is struggling with can help you decide whether or not it's assumed as under OCD, as well as looking at some of these OCD-themed...like I've worked with folks, I worked with an individual who was diagnosed with OCD and not hoarding disorder, although had difficulties discarding, and not so much acquiring, it was more discarding. But that was because she was fearful of making a mistake and throwing something out that was important and that she would need, so we would check it several times and it was kind of consistent with her other checking behaviors, which she was also worried about catastrophe and fires and so she would check her door and check her stove, and so it was really consistent with the OCD presentations. So it fits in with the way that we were conceptualizing her OCD; whereas if that wouldn't have been the case, if hoarding was actually the primary issue, we would likely not have diagnosed, she wouldn't have gotten the diagnosis of OCD.
Rebecca: So in this case what seems to be the most important factor in making that distinction is not about their space, but it's about their reasons why they are saving. If they are more reasons that are more related to OCD behaviors or if they're true hoarding, yeah?
Interviewee: Right, right yeah. And I think um, and that could be, you know I guess this might be a questions in research, like how often does OCD and hoarding disorder, is that diagnosed. I've never diagnosed both and I don't know if there'd be a situation where you could argue that that could happen, but I've never actually diagnosed both and I think that because of the newer diagnosis and because it's related to OCD, you know, I guess technically you probably could diagnose both. I mean if you look at the why box on hoarding, I think it's still on there, although I don't know if that will change in the future or if we will continue to keep those items in OCD or look to separating the two more. I think that'll be a question for research and for a future study, like does that make sense and is it counterindicated or does OCD kind of explain a person's difficulties with hoarding, is it necessary to give them another label or not, and I guess what would prompt an individual to do that? But yeah, those are good questions.