Rebecca: Awesome, well I'm really excited hear your answers for our questions, given how much experience you've had actually treating patients in patients' homes. So the first question that I'm gonna ask, so the first thing that we're gonna do is talk about what constitutes hoarding disorder, so to start off thinking about that, how would you describe the most important differences between normal saving behaviors, such as collecting perhaps, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Yeah, good question. So, I think the really big difference, there's a couple key differences I think, a lot of people collect and I think...I can't remember what year it was but I don't remember the percentage but there was a study done in the UK and it showed like 25% of the population engaged in collecting. So, obviously collecting is distinct from difficulties that are associated with hoarding disorder. I think one reason is that when someone's collecting, they tend to be able to organize their collection and kind of store their collection away, so if they're collecting stamps or what have you, they're kind of organized and they have a home and then these folks tend to bring up these collections and they tend to show them off with pride, there's joy associated with them like, "look at these fans" or maybe find other people who are interested in that particular item and they may show these items with joy and pride; whereas folks who are struggling with hoarding disorder tend to experience a lot of shame. There aren't, the items aren't necessarily organized in that neat, nice structured fashion and they're not necessarily showing others with pride. There's actually a lot of shame and distress associated with the items. I think that's a key difference, and those are the primary differences, now that I'm thinking about it actually. Like the way in which they're stored, folks with hoarding disorder don't have these items stored away so they can bring them out and show people, and the feelings associated with it. So, kind of the feeling of pride when someone's showing off their collection, versus somebody who is ashamed and has negative emotion around having all of these items in their home.
Rebecca: Mhhmm
Interviewee: So those are kind of the two primary.