Interviewer: And could you just walk me through the outline of that case?
Interviewee: Yeah, I can think of maybe a couple of cases. I think where it can get tricky is that hoarding, or individuals who struggle with hoarding, tend to...or the traits tend to show up when they're relatively young, so like adolescent years. And I think that if someone is struggling early on, and they're not actually acquiring enough or having difficulties discarding enough where it's like resulting in clutter that's actually compromising their space or that's like a hazard, then according to the criteria, then it wouldn't be criteria for diagnosis. So, someone might be struggling with hoarding or acquiring objects excessively and might be struggling with discarding, but if they can still use all the spaces in their home, then that kind of puts you in a tricky spot. Because what if not giving this person the diagnosis means they don't get services; however, they don't meet diagnosis, so you can't give them the diagnosis because they don't have the clutter or the, if their home isn't compromised in that way and their space isn't compromised in that way, then you can't come up with a diagnosis at the level of significance where it would need a diagnosis. So that would be, you know, I actually haven't, the only place I've seen that come up is in our research study, because we're looking at folks who are a little less severe and because we don't, because or IRB, we're not seeing people who are being threatened with eviction or because we're going into the home, there can't be mold, there can't be...you know, clutter can't be stacked super high because of earthquake risk and things like that, and so we're actually seeing folks who do kind of fall in that line of is it actually hoarding disorder? Does this meet criteria? And I think for some folks we've had to say no it doesn't, because their home doesn't, the only thing they're saving is the revised inventory questionnaire, if it doesn't meet the threshold, like if they don't have that perceived need to save to the degree that causes impairment or causes distress, then we wouldn't diagnose. So I think taking a look at things like the savings inventory revised or the clutter image rating scale, having a person do those can help you see what actually, is this actually pathological as well as asking them more subjectively like what their home is like and what's their experience inside their home.