Interviewer: Interesting, interesting, it sounds like in your clinical practice most of the patients you see have fairly good insight, is that correct?
Interviewee: Yeah, yeah, fairly good insight in that they're either aware that there's some issue, there's some desire to, there's something happening that's bothering the individual, whether it's, "Oh I'm trying to get my taxes done and I have all these medical bills and in order to do that, I have to be able to sort through all my papers and discharge and I need to learn how to do that because there's so much distress associated with it right now." And so maybe there's not insight into all of the symptoms, or like a motivation to work on all of the domains in someone's life, but there might be in one area. So then we might work there and then we might work together to try to increase insight by just motivational interviewing type of technique. You know, I would never tell somebody that it's a problem, it's only a problem if it's a problem for that person, so it would just be highlighting some of the discrepancies that the individuals might bring up as related to the individual thinking its not a problem and just be kind of highlighting that it is a problem sometimes and having the person kind of sit with it not being a problem but it is a problem, like what does that mean? You know, and kind of talking to somebody to increase their insight would be something that we would do in therapy. But yeah, I think that on some level, most people that I see have some insight. The person that I worked with who had the least amount of insight, I think the reason the person was in treatment was because of the threat of evictions. Those are the hardest cases, because the person has absolutely no insight into the fact that the behavior is problematic and that there is probably distress and impairment in their life, you know there probably isn't going to be any reason to try to fix or do anything differently.
Interviewer: So it sounds like the patients that you see, they start gaining insight because there's some area in their life where they see this negative consequence, even if they don't see the whole picture, there's an eviction, or they're trying to do their taxes, or there's one thing or another that they feel is having a negative impact. And then your tactic is kind of to start there and to see if you can spread that self-knowledge to other domains that are also impacted. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yup, yup, exactly. And I think the other thing that goes into that is because most people don't seek treatment until like their 50s or like midlife, that if you think about the outcome of these symptoms that happen early, I think that one of the reasons is that it takes years for things to accumulate. Like it takes years and years and years for a lot of these folks to actually acquire enough to actually compromise living space. So I think that by the time we're seeing folks things are pretty severe.