Interviewer: So it's more about the home use itself and whether the person's space usage is impaired?
Interviewee: Yeah that's a big part of it, and you know I think the emotional attachment is different. I think for people with hoarding based on our experience, there's a lot of worry about what happens to the items if they're not being used, there's a lot of worry about the person collecting the items, their individual emotional and physical well-being if they didn't have the items, and so I think that that's also distinct form what you would see from a collector. It's a much more personalized attachment.
Interviewer: So it sounds like there's two kind of main distinguishing factors for you. One is that unlike collecting, in individual with hoarding disorder's space will be kind of difficult or dangerous to use. And then the second one is that they'll have a much more kind of intense, maybe fear-based emotional response to their item? Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, along with, you know not just fear-based, but an inability to separate out their identity, potential identity, all of those kind of emotions from the physical objects themselves.
Interviewer: And have you ever encountered a person where you were unsure if they truly had hoarding disorder? Maybe a borderline case or a case that wasn't a usual, where you felt like you just weren't sure or you struggled whether this was what was really going on for the person?
Interviewee: Um, not really. I mean, most of our cases are pretty straight-forward in terms of, you know, when people are talking about their stuff or what they worry about if they did get rid of their stuff, that in combination with the sheer volume of possessions that we see. I can't think of a case where we were unclear. Certainly where we do run into issues is, and this is very different from looking at things clinically obviously, but we have folks who have other mental health issues such as schizophrenia or something like that. So sometimes for us, we're addressing the hoarding behaviors because that's what we're there for, but sometimes it's not clear, is the other mental health issue the primary factor, or is it the hoarding? And I think that's where it gets tricky and it's very different than how this would be clinically diagnosed.
Interviewer: And how do you deal with those situations?
Interviewee: You know, in a lot of the situations we'll do more behavioral work, you know, we've got a partnership with our department of mental health, we work with a lot of their more challenging individuals who will do a lot of things like using blue painter's tape to create an egress path and working with the individuals to get them used to keeping that egress path clear and then reducing the height of piles and getting them used to doing that by using other visual cues. And so, we're much less focused in those situations on the cognitive side and are really primarily focused on using harm-reduction and the behavioral side of things.