Rebecca: So there was this interesting paper that Randy Frost published which broke the concept of insight down into different constructs, and I'd just like to read them to you and have you comment on how you encounter these different sorts of insight, if you think that some are more relevant than others? So the first one is defensiveness, the second one is anosognosia, which is where you're unable to even perceive your illness or that anything is wrong or causing you distress, the third one is overvalued ideation, and that's kind of believing that your items are more valuable than they truly are, and the last one is indifference. Do any of these, all of these seem like they're relevant for your patients? Is there one that you think is more important or less important?
Interviewee: I certainly think the defensiveness is the one that resonates the most. That's something we just see day in and day out, even from folks that are willing to work with us and I think a lot of it seems to come from the fear that we're not gonna understand their stuff or value their stuff and that we're gonna judge them. They know that the system overall can be very punitive, and so what we find is once we make it clear that we're not gonna take their stuff because that's not our role, or tell them what to do, that they have control of their stuff no matter what, the defensiveness seems to break down. A lot of it really seems to be very fear-based.
Rebecca: Um, when you encounter people who have this disorder and have very low insight, would you say that they truly don't know that there's anything different about them or their lives than other people? That they're truly bling to the fact that they have something about them that's different? Or is it more that they don't acknowledge that that difference is a problem?
Interviewee: It feels like they know that not everybody else sees their stuff in their situation the way that they do, and aren't able to see the reasons that that might be a problem. I don't think it's willful disobedience or willful avoidance in most cases, but in some cases sometimes it might be. You know, I think a lot of it is all centered around perception and ability to kind of do the analysis that is required to have accurate perception.
Rebecca: So would you say that when one of those individuals looks at their space, that they can't see how cluttered it is? That they see a normal space, even when it's clearly not normal?
Interviewee: Well normal for them at least. You know, I think they can't see the health and safety issues and the volume in the same way that the rest of us would see. 
Rebecca: And do you feel like that's just because they're so used to it or do you feel like that's almost in the level of like a delusion?
Interviewee: I think it's hard for me to know sometimes. There are certainly some people where they just do not see it, and then there are some people where they might say, "Oh it's a little bit messy but it's not that bad." as we're looking at something that's fairly severe. And so, you know, I generally don't think that it's avoidance as much as it is sometimes it feels like the brain's not giving them accurate data to work with.