Rebecca: Okay. Um, so one of the difficulties with this disorder in the long literature, and I'm sure you encounter it in your work and in your life all the time, is the problem of insight and one of the diagnostic criteria reads, "The difficulty discarding is due to a perceived need to save items and to distress associated with discarding," and I'm wondering how you think about distress in this context, when people will often deny that they are distressed by kind of the state of their home and they may also deny that they would be distressed if they had to discard their items? So how do you think about that? How do you think about the way that that distress fits into this diagnosis?
Interviewee: You know, when we're talking about most of our clients don't have a whole lot of insight, right, so they're like "no everything's fine." You know, what we often try to do is get them talking about the way the stuff isn't actually working for them, whether it's about housing or they can't find their remote or they're tripping. And so, for us often the distress is apparent even if it's not apparent to them and so a lot of time our work is really focused on how do we get them talking about the ways that maybe things aren't going as well as they are telling themselves they are because to some degree I think that saying that everything's really okay it's not a big deal is a great way to have to avoid the reality that maybe things actually aren't as good are they are, or as they seem. And so, I think that that for us a lot of times it's we see the distress and we see the impairment in functioning whether it's distress by the individual or someone else and so a lot of times for us it's really having the conversation and getting them to articulate how stuff's not working so well--even if we're doing it in a way that's not directly saying, "well I don't think this is working so well." It's really kind of saying, "you know it sounds like on the one hand stuff is feeling great, and on the other hand you lost your keys or you can't find your medication" or kind of tell them more about the ways this stuff isn't going the way you'd like it to.
Rebecca: So it sounds like a major task for you, with a person with hoarding disorder, is helping them to experience or to see their own distress.
Interviewee: Yeah.
Rebecca: So, kind of to turn the conversation towards that problem with insight, how do you define insight or low insight in this context? What does having insight mean for a person with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: You know like with everything else, I think that depends on the person. Sometimes it can be understanding that they've got the problem and why that may be, sometimes significant change in insight for someone might be acknowledging that they can see why another person might see and issue, even if they are not ready to admit it but they're ready to do something to at least start making somebody else happy and then kind of finding their own ways. You know, so a lot of our work is getting people to go from "there's no problem, why is everybody picking on me?" To "okay well maybe there's an issue."