Rebecca: And it sounds like maybe unlike a typical clinician, for you what's really important is making the person safe to live in the home and what's causing the behavior is almost less important than that. I mean if they have, for instance, obsessive compulsive disorder other than hoarding, if their house is full of stuff for you the primary thing to deal with is the house. Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Correct, you know and doing the work to teach them the skills so that they can maintain it moving forward. We have a very low recidivism rate because our approach is regardless of what might be going on, if there is a different diagnosis that would be clinically given, that's less what we're worried about. We're really worried about teaching them the skills so that they can not only reduce the volume of their housing, but maintain it moving forward.
Rebecca: One of the things I asked you about in the listing portion of the interview was about how you could tell if somebody had hoarding disorder. I'm wondering if in your mind as somebody who works with these individuals a lot, there's kind of like a soft set of criteria or a typical description of a person with hoarding disorder? Do you feel like if you were to describe a person with hoarding disorder without actually talking about their stuff, that like a cohesive description of that person would emerge? Does that make sense as a question?
Interviewee: It does, and you know it would be so hard to do because all of our folks are really kind of different in terms of our, if you look at our data folks tend to be single, tend to be in their 50s or 60s, our folks have an average income of 13,000. That's because our program is primarily geared to work with lower income folks who are kind of most vulnerable around housing situations. But overall it's interesting because they're actually much better educated than our group in Boston, which is a fairly well-educated population. So, you know, I think it's tough to make some generalities without kind of looking at their particular relationships with the stuff.
Rebecca: I guess I'm, I don't know, sometimes when I ask for that list, even with clinicians I get this kind of very kind of personality-based description. You know, like somebody who's really scattered, who's very vivacious and talks a lot, and I'm wondering if that resonated with you as to the people that you see, that they kind of have this typical manner of being?
Interviewee: It's interesting because you say that and in some of the folks that description is very very accurate, and then there's a lot of folks where that wouldn't be accurate at all, that they're very kind of hyper-organized and very quiet or very exacting. And so, I would feel really uncomfortable actually making a generality.
Rebecca: Mhhm, that's exactly, yeah.
Interviewee: Because we see such a wide range in terms of personalities. I think the thing that is much more consistent is the themes around why people hold onto their stuff.