Interviewee: Okay. Another thing that has come out in these interviews has to do with the diagnostic criteria that reads, "The difficulty discarding results in the accumulation of possessions that congest and clutter active living areas and substantially compromises their intended use." And that seems to be what you're talking about in terms of the space kind of impairing the person's life. I'm wondering how you think about, and I'm sure this is something that you encounter, the fact that if you have less space, if you're living in a very small apartment for instance, it's much easier for your space to become congested and cluttered as opposed to somebody who lives in a huge mansion who has plenty of space, or somebody who can afford storage units. Do you feel like it's easier for a person who has a small apartment to have hoarding disorder, or do you feel like that doesn't really play out that way?
Interviewee: I think people with hoarding disorder are going to fill the available space. We often hear, "Oh if I just had a bigger space," but then we see people who have 3-bedroom apartments or 2-bedroom apartments and they're full. And so I think it's less about apartment size and more about the ability to separate out the emotional attachment and also separate out the limits, because we all have to live with the space that we've got.
Rebecca: Would it be hypothetically possible to hoard items that don't take up space, such as somebody who has like thousands of digital books on their computer and has no more hard drive space and can't use their computer because they have--you know, I guess what I'm asking about is does it have to be space in the home? Is that a necessary part of it?
Interviewee: You know, I think at least for right now, yes. You know, I could certainly see an argument about hoarding elsewhere, but that's where really the question becomes in what way is it impairing the individual's functioning in whatever part of their life? Because without that impairment I don't really see how that's a disorder. 
Rebecca: So for you that comes back to impairment, and I guess when you're talking about impairment, how do you determine...so again, I could imagine a person making an argument that their kitchen use is not impaired because they don't cook, they don't use their stove, so the fact that they have huge piles of stuff on their stove isn't impairing to them because they would never use their stove anyway. So, when you're trying to determine if somebody is truly impaired, particularly in a disorder like this where people sometimes struggle with seeing the impairment, how do you make that determination?
Interviewee: I think that's where we have to look at, you know, there are a lot of different kinds of impairment. So, if somebody's not cooking but they've still got items on their stove, that's a fire hazard that could impair their health and safety if there were to be a fire. So just given what we know about how long it takes to intervene in hoarding-related fires, and so I think that people with hoarding may look very narrowly at impairment, while we're looking much more broadly at is this impacting your ability to carry out daily life activities? Is it impacting your ability to remain safely housed? Is it impacting your health and wellbeing overall in ways that the person might not necessarily see, given the disabling nature of hoarding.