Interviewer: Okay, perfect. Well thank you for doing that with me, we're going to move into the more unstructured fun part of the interview. Just to begin with just as we get into that, would you mind telling me a couple of sentences about your background related to hoarding disorder and how you encountered individuals with this disorder?
Interviewee: We started a program here at INSTITUTION in 2006, because we were seeing a lot of people who were losing their section 8 housing subsidies because of failed inspections caused by hoarding behavior. So we partnered with INSTITUTION and developed an evidence-based case management program for hoarding intervention to reduce the risk of housing loss due to hoarding behavior.
Interviewer: And what is your professional and educational background?
Interviewee: My professional, I actually don't have an undergraduate degree, and my professional background initially was doing HIV/AIDS work in the mid 90's in North Carolina, and then moving to Boston and doing housing work as a community organizer around various housing issues. And then I started doing some work in our code department here at INSTITUTION and that's how we've sort of taken hoarding and I've decided there's gotta be a better way to address the issue and that's when we got some training through INSTITUTION and INSTITUTION.
Interviewer: And are you involved in diagnosing people with hoarding disorder, treating them, or research or all of the above or none of the above?
Interviewee: So we don't do diagnosis. We're less worried about the mental health diagnosis, our goal is to provide case management intervention so that people aren't losing their homes. And so, if you think about treatment more broadly and less kind of clinically, you know I guess you could make an argument that that what we're doing, that our focus is not on the mental health side, it's on the social service intervention side. In addition to that, we've partnered with INSTITUTION to do some research because we have a very large data base of information that we've collected over the years, to better understand the problem of hoarding as we see it in the community so that we can have a better response in terms of housing stability and eviction prevention.
Interviewer: And how long have you worked with these individuals?
Interviewee: Since 2006.
Interviewer: So, now we're gonna talk a little bit about the diagnosis of hoarding and we have some questions, which we kind of use with clinicians but I'm really curious to your encounters with them and your ideas about them, so if you don't feel like these pertain particularly to you that's okay. The first one is kind of broad, so in your mind, what do you think are the most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps somebody who is a collector of items, and somebody with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Good question, I think there are a couple of different things. I think that the volume of possessions certainly is one. You know, with collectors, generally speaking they're able to display things, you could still use the homes and the rooms, the spaces for their intended purpose and I think when we think about hoarding, that impairment of the ability to use the space and the real risk of it in terms of health, safety and well-being is a bigger factor, so I think that that's the big kind of difference there that we see.