Rebecca: And are you involved in diagnosing people with hoarding disorder, treating them, or research or all of the above or none of the above?
Interviewee: So we don't do diagnosis. We're less worried about the mental health diagnosis, our goal is to provide case management intervention so that people aren't losing their homes. And so, if you think about treatment more broadly and less kind of clinically, you know I guess you could make an argument that that what we're doing, that our focus is not on the mental health side, it's on the social service intervention side. In addition to that, we've partnered with [INSTITUTION 8:03] to do some research because we have a very large data base of information that we've collected over the years, to better understand the problem of hoarding as we see it in the community so that we can have a better response in terms of housing stability and eviction prevention.
Rebecca: And how long have you worked with these individuals?
Interviewee: Since 2006.
Rebecca: So, now we're gonna talk a little bit about the diagnosis of hoarding and we have some questions, which we kind of use with clinicians but I'm really curious to your encounters with them and your ideas about them, so if you don't feel like these pertain particularly to you that's okay. The first one is kind of broad, so in your mind, what do you think are the most important differences between normal saving behavior, such as perhaps somebody who is a collector of items, and somebody with hoarding disorder?
Interviewee: Good question, I think there are a couple of different things. I think that the volume of possessions certainly is one. You know, with collectors, generally speaking they're able to display things, you could still use the homes and the rooms, the spaces for their intended purpose and I think when we think about hoarding, that impairment of the ability to use the space and the real risk of it in terms of health, safety and well-being is a bigger factor, so I think that that's the big kind of difference there that we see.
Rebecca: So it's more about the home use itself and whether the person's space usage is impaired?
Interviewee: Yeah that's a big part of it, and you know I think the emotional attachment is different. I think for people with hoarding based on our experience, there's a lot of worry about what happens to the items if they're not being used, there's a lot of worry about the person collecting the items, their individual emotional and physical well-being if they didn't have the items, and so I think that that's also distinct form what you would see from a collector. It's a much more personalized attachment. 
Rebecca: So it sounds like there's two kind of main distinguishing factors for you. One is that unlike collecting, in individual with hoarding disorder's space will be kind of difficult or dangerous to use. And then the second one is that they'll have a much more kind of intense, maybe fear-based emotional response to their item? Does that sound right?
Interviewee: Yeah, along with, you know not just fear-based, but an inability to separate out their identity, potential identity, all of those kind of emotions from the physical objects themselves.