Interviewer: Mhhm, interesting. So, now I have a couple of questions that deal with the specific diagnostic criteria, and I know that that's not really how you look at this problem, but I still want to kind of think through these issues with you. So, the first one is about value and when we talked about what distinguishes a person who has hoarding disorder from somebody who's a collector, you mentioned that the person with hoarding disorder their space will be much more kind of impacted and unusable, and I'm wondering if in your mind the value of the items saved is relevant to whether or not somebody has hoarding disorder? So, could you be a person with hoarding disorder who exclusively saves one kind of item in the same way a collector might? You know, like you can imagine somebody's house is totally filled with like cuckoo clocks to the point that they can't use it, but that's all they save.
Interviewee: Yup, you know and I think one of the interesting things is that they've taken the definition has changed around hoarding over the years. You know, the language around the definition used to say, "Items that have little or no value," you know, but what we know is that people hoard all kinds of really nice stuff and really not nice stuff and I think a lot of it goes back to beauty is in the eye of the beholder. We certainly see people who hoard all of one thing, and sometimes it looks completely like trash to me and sometimes I can totally understand the value. I think when we think about value, I'm much more concerned about what's the value to the client that I'm working with, less about the finical value because we have people who hoard, you know the guy who has 15 or 20,0000 toothpaste caps, and for him they're extremely valuable, for me they would be trash. And so I think it's important that we as professionals are really careful about how we think about value.
Interviewer: So, for you what's relevant really to telling if somebody has hoarding disorder is not what they're saving or how objectively valuable it is, more that their stuff is impairing their life. So, you could hoard valuable art and if your house was unusable, it would still be hoarding disorder.
Interviewee: Yeah, for the most part.
Interviewer: Yeah, for the most part.