Interviewer: Mhhm, and do you feel--I'm assuming that you've encountered also individuals that have problems with animal hoarding, because of your role. Is that correct?
Interviewee: Right.
Interviewer: Do you feel like that's different for those individuals?
Interviewee: You know, we don't have that many cases that come across every year so it's sort of hard to tell.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee: There's certainly a different level of attachment to the animals and an inability, when there's poor animal care, to be able to see it that feels a little bit different from object hoarding, but certainly that's not...again, we don't see that many so it's sort of hard for me to say.
Interviewer: When you think about the individuals that you've encountered with this disorder, do you have any sense for how long the behavior's been going on before you see them?
Interviewee: Certainly for most of our folks, decades. You know, dating back to late teens, early twenties.
Interviewer: And I guess just as you encounter these individuals, do you think that it's like a progressive illness that gets worse with age, or do you see it more as a set of circumstances? So like, as a person ages they naturally become more socially isolates, their children might leave home, they might inherit things from their parents, they might have a fixed income, and that those are the things that make it get worse as they get older?
Interviewee: You know, we're not seeing people who are going out and actively acquiring all the time later in life, especially since they're frail, it feels like it's more of a, when you think about how much stuff builds up over a course of decades if you're not able to get rid of it, either through active acquiring or through things like junk mail that just come into our lives, it feels like it's more of a slow slide off of a slippery slope than anything else. It just kind of builds up and builds up and builds up.
Interviewer: So, maybe it's more that the stuff has built up rather than the behavior has gotten recently worse?
Interviewee: Correct.
Interviewer: Well those are all my questions, I really appreciate your time today.
Interviewer: Okay, perfect. Well thank you for doing that with me, we're going to move into the more unstructured fun part of the interview. Just to begin with just as we get into that, would you mind telling me a couple of sentences about your background related to hoarding disorder and how you encountered individuals with this disorder?
Interviewee: We started a program here at [INSTITUTION] in 2006, because we were seeing a lot of people who were losing their section 8 housing subsidies because of failed inspections caused by hoarding behavior. So we partnered with [INSTITUTION] and developed an evidence-based case management program for hoarding intervention to reduce the risk of housing loss due to hoarding behavior.
Interviewer: And what is your professional and educational background?
Interviewee: My professional, I actually don't have an undergraduate degree, and my professional background initially was doing HIV/AIDS work in the mid 90's in North Carolina, and then moving to Boston and doing housing work as a community organizer around various housing issues. And then I started doing some work in our code department here at [INSTITUTION] and that's how we've sort of taken hoarding and I've decided there's gotta be a better way to address the issue and that's when we got some training through [INSTITUTION] and [INSTITUTION].