Interviewer:
How is this one similar or different from your own?
Interviewee:
Well, again, I don't have anything keeping me from getting into my bathroom, nor do I have trouble finding my wallet and keys, and I'm always on time or early.
Interviewer:
And this is the last one, it's a little different.
John Doe has several antiques that he keeps because he likes them and knows they are valuable.
He goes once a week and buys more antiques.
He is worried that he might get rid of an antique item that is worth a lot of money.
Antiques occupy every room.
Before entering his bathroom, he must remove several antique items.
Often, it is difficult for Mr. Doe to find his car keys and wallet so he will spend 30 minutes to an hour looking for them until he finds them or forgets what he was looking for.
He is almost always late in getting to where he needs to be and sometimes does not show up at all.
Interviewee:
Well, once again, I would say, yes, he's got a hoarding problem and would need to get help from some sort of a professional, and it's different from me again in that I don't have to move things to get in and out of the bathroom or get to any other room, and I'm always on time and early.
Interviewer:
Okay, thank you.
So, this will be the last part of the interview, but we basically want to know how Covid has impacted your life and impacted how much you've bought stuff or tried to change your behavior basically.
So, the first general question is how has Covid impacted your life and what specific behaviors have changed?
Interviewee:
Well, my husband and I have been in shelter in place since middle of March.
We don't go out for anything except to get groceries.
For a while, we were able to go out and walk so we were walking and getting some exercise because the gyms are closed, but now we've got fires so we can't go out at all because of the smoke.
We both have asthma, so we've been out to a meal once, out to a restaurant, since all of this started.
It's been crazy.
I haven't been able to do...
What really impacted me the most and I got kind of depressed was before this happened I sang in a choir that sings at bedsides at hospices.
We couldn't go into any...
All of the hospices closed to visitors so we can't go and do that.
I can do weddings because all the venues closed, so I've done like four weddings.
Normally, I would do that many in a week and now I've done that many in this last period of several months-
Interviewer:
Oh, my.
Interviewee:
CROSSTALK outdoors and parks with like three or four people.
So, I've lost the things that was giving my life meaning and so that hit me pretty hard.