Interviewer:
And what do you-
Interviewee:
And I don't hoard because I'm afraid that the world's going to end, or they're not going to make these things anymore, which mostly they don't.
That could be true, but I don't hoard because of that.
I'm not one of those type of guys who starts hoarding this because he knows they're not making that anymore.
I have that idea that, "Oh, I better get a couple of these now because they're not going to make them anymore," and I do that.
I'll go buy five of these items because I know that they won't make them anymore.
And if I pass them on to my grandchildren, they can make a fortune on those.
Which some of them are going to do.
So I guess there's a legacy in being a hoarder, but you don't want it running in your family.
I don't want my daughter's thing...
It doesn't help their personal relationships.
I've already found that out.
When they become a hoarder like me, they don't get along in the family very well.
So it takes a certain type of personality to be able to build up the encumbrance of collections and hoarding at the same time without...
And still be able to get along with everybody in your family.
That's the key to it all.
And I would say that if I'd been a really good family man and not a good hobby man, I probably would still have a lot of my immediate family around me rather than at distances on this Earth right now.
And that's kind of strange, but that's the way things work out.
If you have a lot of family, sometimes you don't have a lot of time to do other things than to deal with your family.
So anyway, right now I'm at that age where I'm making all these realizations, and realize this and realize that, but it doesn't do me any good because I'm sort of over the hill.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
So, actually we're going to be moving on to the next part of the interview.
And I'm going to go ahead and read you some scenarios, and then ask you some questions after each one.
Does that sound good?
Interviewee:
Alrighty.
Interviewer:
All right.
So, the first scenario.
So, John Doe has several boxes that he keeps in case he needs to store something or he decides to move.
When the items are-
Interviewee:
Say that one again.