Interviewer:
Yeah. So, I'm going to read you another scenario-
Participant 011:
CROSSTALK I remember where I put things down.
But not always.
Once you get over 80 years old, you don't always remember where you put things down because your mind, may be somewhere else when you're doing it.
But it's not a big problem.
And I would say John DOE, if he has that problem, he should take care of that and go seek help depending upon what...
If it's just putting boxes that he bought things in, and then cluttering up the garage, that could be a problem too.
But like I told you, if it's just the television box, okay, leave it there because it may break.
Or if it's another box, something you may have to return, yeah.
Normal people keep those things because nowadays everything breaks within a few years.
So CROSSTALK way.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
So, I'm going to go ahead and read you another scenario.
Is that okay with you?
Participant 011:
Yeah, read me another...
I'm probably going to look too far into these scenarios you're reading me, and therefore, being a good rationalist, I'll be able to figure it out.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So John Doe has several boxes that he keeps in case he needs to store something or decides to move.
When items are delivered to his house, he keeps the container the item came in, yet he's worried that he might get rid of a box that he will need later.
Stacks of boxes occupy every room.
Before entering his bathroom, he must remove several stacks of boxes.
His house is extremely cluttered and it is difficult for him to walk in his house.
Often it is difficult for Mr. Doe to find his car keys and wallet, so he will spend 30 minutes to an hour looking for them until he eventually finds them or forgets what he was looking for.
He is almost always late in getting to where he needs to be and sometimes does not show up at all.
So again, do you believe Mr. Doe has more serious hoarding disorder behavior or is it more of a clutter problem, and why?
Participant 011:
No, no. He's got more serious problems than just clutter.
But yeah, boxes in every room, that's a bad sign.
My bad habit is putting smaller boxes into larger boxes and smaller boxes into the smaller boxes, so I've got 10 boxes, all different sizes, all in one box.
And so of course I need the box in the middle.
Interviewer:
Yeah.