And I hope we'll see what happens when the vaccine gets here next year maybe, if it gets here.
I'm keeping my fingers crossed that everything will get back up there, but I'm a little pessimistic in the long run.
So unless I was a billionaire, which I'm not, and I wouldn't want to be a billionaire because I couldn't manage all that, financially it upset me.
And I think it upset most people financially.
I can't see why not.
And to make things worse, everything has gone up in price.
I'm just out there buying some stuff on the internet today that I can't find locally, and the price is almost doubled so there you go.
Your experiences too, my dear, so it's not just me.
We all are experiencing this and which means the dollars are getting really stretched.
It's good to have a little money in the bank, I guess.
I don't know.
The COVID thing, this is going to be interesting to see if it straightens out after we get the vaccine.
I hope to God it does, but there may be something worse that'll come in and make it even worse.
So who knows?
We can't predict the future.
We can only try to protect ourselves in the present.
Interviewer:
Yes, that's true.
How have you been coping since COVID?
How has it been seeking comfort or any techniques you've found helpful?
Interviewee:
Yeah, I do.
I do.
I found some exercises that I like very much, but everybody else is starting to clue in on those things too.
You start doing something that's good for you and other people hone in on it.
But yeah.
No, it's not that we're all dancing together again, but maybe that'll happen in the future as long as we keep our six feet apart.
Interviewer:
Yeah, has COVID-
Interviewee:
I'm very positive about the way this is working out.
I mean, I think people are getting used to the COVID and we all wear our masks at restaurants and whatnot, supermarkets.
So that seems okay, but people want to get together.
I can see that.
And when you got large families, you got to be really careful if they're all in the same house together.
I don't have any of my family right around me.
They're all either different countries or different states so that's difficult.
The other difficult thing is I can't travel right now other than driving.
I don't like driving a lot so I have to have people with me when I drive.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
How has-
Interviewee:
I'm sort of bound to where I am here in this state.
I can't go back East or drive back east right now so we'll see what happens.
It's a little difficult for all of us.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Has COVID affected your sense of isolation or loneliness at all?
Interviewee:
Yes.
Yeah.
I told you it's making me more isolated.
It's terrible.