Interviewee:
Right now, I'm getting rid of 120 DVDs that weren't even mine, but I'm getting rid...
Some of them were mine.
And I'm just giving those to the Goodwill.
So, it's a lot of stuff just going out.
And will it make me feel any better?
Only when I have more space around me, yes.
But then the tendency to fill that space comes right into... I want to do that right away.
And I don't do it on purpose.
I like to have everything around me that I can work with.
So that's us clutter bees, that's one of the way we rationalize.
We say, "Okay, I like to have everything around me that I'm going to work with," and then there's a million things you want around you.
So, that gives you clutter right there.
Interviewer:
Yeah, what do you think-
Interviewee:
I'm a shop type person.
In other words, I like working with my hands.
I do electronics, I do mechanics, and so it's like I bring my shop into the house when I can and work at my desk or something.
And then that doesn't mean I bring everything back out to the shop that I have in the garage.
So some of that stuff stays in the house, and then it takes me awhile to bring it back to the garage and...
Oh yeah, that's clutter.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
What do you think-
Interviewee:
CROSSTALK clutter.
Interviewer:
What do you think are the most important differences between what is considered normal saving behavior, such as collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee:
Like I tell you earlier, there's a fine line between the collector and the hoarder.
And you would have to ask the psychiatrist because I've met collectors that are just obsessed with what they collect.
Now, I've collected a little bit of this and a little bit of that and a little bit of this and a little bit of that.
So I'm not obsessed with it, but every now and then I say...
Years ago, I started saying, "Well, if I start collecting these baseball cards, I can retire early."
And so I sold a few baseball cards, and sure enough, it became lots of money.
So after I realized that by holding onto things for 20, 30 years, you can make a lot of money that way, I started doing more and more of that and it became... I won't say it became a hobby, but then I became a collector.
Then at the same time, I'm also a clutter person, so everything clutters up.
I don't just save one thing, but I save maybe 30 different things.
So there's a problem there between the collector and the hoarder.