Interviewer:
Yes, John Doe has several boxes that he keeps in case he needs to store something or he decides to move.
When items are delivered to his house, he keeps the container the item came in and he is worried that he might get rid of a box that he will need later.
Stacks of boxes occupy one of his closets, but there are no boxes in other rooms.
His house is not always organized, but is usually not cluttered.
Occasionally it is difficult for Mr. Doe to find his car keys and wallet, so he will spend a few minutes looking for them until he eventually finds them.
When this happens, he is rarely late in getting to where he needs to be.
So after this scenario, do you believe John Doe has clutter problems?
Or do you think this is more serious behavior?
Interviewee:
I would say he has more serious behavior problems because I never lose my keys.
I always put them in the same spot for many, many years.
My father did that too, by the way.
He always put his keys and his coins on his dresser the moment he got home.
And I watched him carefully and I took on the same habit.
So, yes.
But John Doe here, if he's losing his keys and can't find them, and then he has to go find those boxes in the closet and...
Oh my gosh, I think he's got a problem.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Do you think he should seek treatment from a psychiatrist or...
Interviewee:
I can understand saving the boxes because I do that too.
I mean, if I take this...
Buy a new television, I'll put the box in the garage and sooner or later that televison's going to break and I have to put it back in the box and ship it back to the manufacturer.
So that's one of the reasons why I save the box, but there's probably a million other reasons why people do that.
But I don't think you would need to seek help on that one if it's rationalized properly.
On the other hand, if John Doe's putting his keys on top of his clutter every day, he may need to seek help because he can't find the keys, or he put the keys down, then he didn't know where he put the keys down and now he has to get an appointment and he can't get into his car.
That could be a problem.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm going to read you-
Interviewee:
And I would say that he needs to get help if that happens three or four times a week.
I would definitely seek help.
So far it hasn't happened to me, and knock on wood, and I'm lucky.