Interviewee:
Okay. I do have the tendency to clutter up the sink and I try to always try to keep the surfaces clean, but I'll put things down and then have to move them to another space.
So I have problems in that area.
Yeah, definitely.
I move things from one place to another, and then they get more cluttered.
So it bothers me.
And then I forget, I can't find something.
I'm looking for a bill and I put another paper on top of that bill and put another thing on top of that paper.
And so I have to go four or five things deep to find the bill that I forgot to pay last month.
That's now charging me double interest.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm .
Interviewee:
So it's no fun being a clutter b. I'll tell you.
If I had my choice, I wouldn't have a thing on this table here in front of me, which is just full of stuff.
But I'm so used to having all this clutter in front of me.
It's probably going to stay with me till I die, but I try to get my friends and people to help me on this.
But even the people who love you, they're not going to really clean off your table for you.
You can give them gifts from your table and I'll give them this, give them that, take this.
Oh, no, no, that's yours, no take it, go ahead.
And they will take it.
And that sort of pleases me, but the only person who's ever going to clean it all up is myself, I'm pretty convinced.
Unless I hire someone full time, like a nurse type person who's going to actually put everything in boxes and get rid of them, which I may end up doing.
So right now I have one person trying to sell a lot of stuff for me.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
So how do your family and friends feel about your behavior?
Have you ever had conflicts with anybody?
Interviewee:
How do they feel?
They won't tell me the truth, that's for sure.
That's how I know how they feel.
Like I told you earlier, they'll kind of laugh and chuckle and think it's cute and all this and that, but I can't really get anybody to pin it down like a mental illness, I would say.
Nobody's approached me saying, "Gee, you really have a problem LEN."
Nobody's said that to me because other people have little problems too but they're not total clutter b's.
Don't just keep piling things on top of one another and then leave it that way, which I'm doing, unfortunately.
So it doesn't depress me to tell you that much, but it's cumbersome in my life.
And I find it hard to find things, but there's a plus to all this, the plus is that my memory is in good shape because I'm forced to have a good memory to find things.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm .