Participant 013:
Then of course there's times when I'm just like, oh, my gosh, shut that door.
My one room that's just full of stuff.
If somebody comes in and my bathroom's right next to that.
If they want to use the bathroom, I'm like, oh, my god, if they looked in there, I would die.
That's no way to live, that's just stupid.
But thank god I do, I am very grateful that it's not the rest of the house, that I have kept it in check enough.
Interviewer:
Okay.
You mentioned earlier that you had just gotten rid of something without really knowing what it was, that it would really upsetting.
Has there ever been a time where someone just kind of gone through your stuff and got rid of something without you knowing?
Participant 013:
Yeah, that's happened, especially with my mom years ago.
I often think that that's maybe when this started.
When I was a kid, she got rid of a couple things that were from my great grandmother who I was very, very close to.
It was like this quilt that she had made me and this little bench that she gave me that I used to sit on.
My mother just, I don't know, she just randomly threw them away one day.
I always, still to this day, picture them in a landfill and I can't believe she did that.
Then when my grandmother died, it was only a couple years later, because I was still young.
She didn't let me go to the funeral.
Still to this day she'll say, "Oh, your great grandmother, do you remember her?
She was whatever."
I'm like, of course, I remember her.
I used to spend every weekend with her.
It's weird.
My mom dismisses the fact that I was close to her and had anything to do with her and I don't know why I never got closure after she died.
I mean I was in 6th grade I think, so I was what, 11 or something.
I was old enough to have dealt with it.
It was still brushed aside.
So I kind of think that's maybe, sometimes when I really think about it, I'm like, I wonder if that's where all this started?
Then through the years, like when my son was little and you're a young parent, you get overwhelmed.
She would come over and babysit and I would home and be like, "Where's this?
Where's that?" She'd be like, "Oh, you didn't need that."
It's way happened over.
Even when I first met my partner and we moved in together, and then I noticed that he had gotten rid of a few things.
Then I finally had to have a talk with him, "You just can't do that.
That sends me into a frenzy.
If you really think it's something that we don't need, then talk to me about it and I'll deal with it."
But it's almost like I have to do it myself if I'm going to get rid of something.
I can't have anyone do it for me.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Participant 013:
Especially without me knowing.
Then I find out, oh, my god.
Very stressful.