Interviewer:
Okay. How would you like your home to look like?
In an ordeal world?
Participant 013:
In an ordeal world, I dream of someday having the basement basically pretty empty other than your Christmas stuff and your whatever, stuff that belongs in a basement.
So someday I would love to get there.
This other room, I would love to have it be a real office where I could have a desk that I sit at and do stuff.
Organized files and not boxes of stuff that I'm still going through and stuff.
So ideally, I hope I get there someday.
It would be really nice.
Interviewer:
Okay.
How important are your things for you to feel at home?
Which objects or things do you spend most of your time with?
Participant 013:
What do you mean spend time with?
Interviewer:
Some people have a collection of books and they read a lot and they spend most of their time reading.
So those would be the items that they spend most of their time with.
That make them feel very homey.
Participant 013:
Oh, I gotcha.
Well, I do read a lot, I'm a retired librarian and teacher, so I do have a lot of books.
But I'm good with books.
If it's a book that I love and it's a classic and something that I'd refer to often, then that's on the bookshelf.
But if I'm reading a trade paperback and I finish it, then I pass it along to someone.
So I do love books.
I don't know.
I've always been very sentimental and very much a homebody.
Even though we travel, we actually own three other homes, one in Florida, one in Mexico, and one in Oregon.
Interviewer:
Oh, nice.
Participant 013:
We do a lot of traveling.
They're all not cluttered, which is good because they're basically our vacation places.
So I try not to bring a lot of stuff there.
But anyway.
This is like main house, my home, so I love my pictures, my family pictures.
I love anything that my son has given me over the years, anything that special people in my life have given me.
That kind of stuff I could never part with.
But it makes me happy to see.
Things that I've gotten on travels, or antiques, some special things.
I was just saying that to my mother the other day because she's downsizing.
She said, "Oh, I have so much stuff."
I said, "Well, things that are special to you, I think are okay to have because it makes you feel happy to see them.
Or makes you feel good or evokes a memory."
We were having that kind of a conversation.
So stuff like that.
I'm not a clothes hoarder or shoes.
I mean I have a lot of clothes and shoes and things, but they're not all that meaningful.