Interviewer:
Okay. Have you ever had any serious conflicts with your partner or any of the family?
Or have they always kind of just misunderstood you and it's been minor arguments?
Interviewee:
Yeah, nothing ever really serious.
They just kind of shake their head or laugh at me.
Because I really try to not interfere with anybody else.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee:
With him it works out fine because like I said, we have a big half house and he knows not to go in my one room and stuff.
But otherwise, it's okay.
I don't know where I fall on the spectrum because I know I'm not as bad as I see.
But [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer:
Okay.
Do you believe your behavior's a problem?
Why or why not?
Interviewee:
Yeah, it's definitely a problem.
I definitely wish it wasn't.
But like I said I've been like this forever.
It wasn't a problem when I lived in the same house for a long time and always said, "Oh, I'll get to the attic and I'll get to the room, and whatever."
I was working and busy, I'm retired now.
It became very evident when we moved, we loved in Jersey and our house got flooded in LOCATIONy, so the whole thing happened, the hurricane and stuff.
But most of it was the upstairs so it was fine because it almost would've been a blessing had I lost a lot of stuff.
But I didn't.
Most of it was upstairs and in the attic.
Then when we moved, decided to retire and move to Vermont, but I've since moved.
I moved to a temporary place after LOCATIONy, so I had to move everything there.
Of course, I always say, "Oh, I'm going to go through it all and pair down."
And didn't.
So that was a nightmare.
Then you think I'm paying to move crap.
Then I beat myself up.
Moving to Vermont, then I moved everything to Vermont, which was crazy.
Then in Vermont we decided to sell our house and buy a different one just last year.
So by then, we'd been here a couple years, I should've had everything done.
But of course, I had to pay someone to move everything and all the stuff.
It's just so shameful because it's stupid, it's just stupid.
I know it but I can't.
Everyone's like, "Just get a dumpster.
Why are you moving all this stuff?" But I'm like, I have to go through it, I have to figure out what it is, I have to find homes for everything.
It's a process and I have to do it.
But nobody understands it and everybody thinks it's crazy and it is crazy.
But I kind of don't have a choice.
I don't know, it's hard to describe.