Interviewee:
I said to my partner the other day actually, eBay screwed up my account and then they give me this credit.
I was like, we have this credit on eBay, do we want to buy something?
We wracked our brains thinking there was really nothing we needed or wanted.
So it's a great feeling to feel like that.
I feel like I really don't, I'm so careful now when I go shopping, which is rare.
That I just don't buy anything I absolutely don't need or am going to use or going to gift or something.
I think I've turned a corner in the last few years, it's been a really slow process and it's going to continue.
I get down on myself a lot because it gets really overwhelming and frustrating.
But then I think at least I think I've broken the cycle of it.
I try to look at is as a longterm process.
I get criticized from people all the time and nobody in my family's like this, none of my friends.
Nobody understands me at all and it gets very frustrating.
But I just tell them I really look at it as a longterm thing.
It's not going to happen overnight, but it's happening.
It's just going to be a slow slog until I get it.
But I've made really a lot of progress over the last few months being home.
Quarantine has been a really good thing for me in that regard.
My partner, we've been together like 12 years and he's the complete opposite of me.
He's very minimalist, he doesn't keep anything.
So I don't know how we do so well together, but we kind of have our separate spaces and our communal spaces are fine and I'm really careful to keep them clutter free and clean.
That's how it works, I guess.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee:
So anyway, that was kind of a long answer, but hopefully that explains a little bit.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
You said you haven't sought any professional help for this?
Interviewee:
I haven't and often I've thought that I should.
But I've never really gone.
The only time I've done any kind of counseling is after my husband passed away 14 years ago.
That was just really hard, so I went to grief counseling.
Then I was involved in politics for a long time and that was really hard.
So my grief counselor, once in a while I would go and see him again just to talk through some special situations.
But other than that, I've always kind of thought I should, but I don't know.
I seem to be doing okay on my own, but probably would be helpful because I really don't have anyone to talk about it to.
No one understands.
Honestly, it's wacky.
My mother especially criticizes me all the time.
But then she constantly gives me stuff.
In fact, my partner's daughter just came up, we live in Vermont, she came up from New Jersey.
My mother loaded her car up, she just got here an hour ago, with stuff.
Just because she's cleaning out her stuff, to give me.
I'm like, why are you doing this to me?
It's like giving drugs to a drug addict.
I'm trying to get rid of my stuff
But then she'll mock me for, "Oh, you have so much stuff and what are you ..." I don't get it.
So that's what I'm up against.
But then she'll mock me for, "Oh, you have so much stuff and what are you ..." I don't get it.
So that's what I'm up against.