Interviewer:
I had a question, it slipped my mind, I'm sure it'll come back.
Oh, I remember.
You mentioned that you previously were married, did your previous husband ever try to get rid of your stuff?
Or was he accepting of your behavior?
Was he also a collector?
Or?
Interviewee:
He was pretty normal, he wasn't like Erik, my partner now.
Literally, if he buys a new shirt, one goes to the Goodwill.
He does not keep anything.
But my husband was just regular.
He didn't hoard stuff but he didn't have everything streamlined either.
We had a huge house, our house in New Jersey that Hurricane LOCATIONy got.
Most of my clutter was in the attic, so it was out of sight, out of mind.
But we had so much room, huge closets.
If it was all compacted into a small house, it probably would've looked like a lot stuff but because it was spread out, I don't even think he noticed, honestly.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee:
He certainly never complained about it.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Did it ever impact your work at all?
Did it ever create problems with coworkers?
Interviewee:
Well, the funny thing about work is, they say two of the professions that are most pack rat oriented are librarians and teachers, and that's what I was.
I had a huge library in the high school where I worked, which was the high school I went to and my son went to.
I always had piles of stuff and everybody would always be like, "Oh, look."
People at school, teachers are all like that anyway.
It was pretty good.
Although my back storage room was pretty bad.
When I retired, they decided to close the library and make it into a tech lab.
So I knew everything was going to be going, they were just going to probably get rid of everything.
So that was really stressful for me.
It took me a couple months before I left to really try to give stuff away.
Who wants this from the library?
Who wants books?
The stuff I had stored there all the years, it's not like personal stuff per se, because I taught classes too.
So all my teaching supplies, all that stuff, that was a nightmare.
In fact, a lot of it ended up here and I still have boxes in the basement of teaching supplies and things, which I'll never use again, I don't think.
But then I think, well, what if I do start teaching a college class or something up here?
It would be a bummer to have to redo everything.