Interviewer:
All righty.
So this next part of the interview is going to be more conversation style and it's kind of separated it into a few different topics.
So this first one is going to be behavior and treatment seeking.
Can you please describe your clutter problems and how long they've been going on?
Interviewee:
I guess almost as long as I can remember, honestly.
I'm 54 and I can remember even as a kid having a messy room, having a lot of stuff around.
Not necessarily good stuff but just yeah.
So I think pretty much a long time.
What was the question?
What was the rest?
Interviewer:
It was just can you describe I guess your problem and how severe?
Would you say your behavior is severe now?
Interviewee:
I don't think it's severe.
I've never been at the severe point where you see a lot of those crazy TV shows.
I've never been like that, but I've always had, depending on what house I lived in, a full basement, a full attic.
A room that I always call a junk room in my house with just stuff.
I mean the main living areas of my house have always been fine, clean, and uncluttered, and livable, and entertain often.
But I've always had a part that's full of stuff.
I've literally carted around the same stuff for decades where I'm moving.
Honestly now, the last few years, I've tried to really by myself basically get a handle on it and tried to start really and truly making an effort to get rid of stuff.
Just for example, I do flea markets and antique festivals and things like that.
This last few months with the pandemic that I've been home, I've always done stuff on eBay, but I've been crazy with eBay the last few months because I guess a lot of people are shopping at home.
I send out several packages a day and I'm finally getting through my basement.
I just have so much stuff.
It's almost like spitting in the ocean because I've got a lot of stuff and sending out a few things here and there.
But at least I feel like I'm moving in a direction and I'm really trying.
I'm part of a neighborhood forum, so if somebody posts they need something, I'll be like, oh, I have it, I'll bring it to you.
I guess other than stuff that's really special and sentimental to me, regular stuff, I'm at the point where if I can't use it and I don't need it, I am happy to get rid of it.
I don't want to throw it away and see it go in a landfill, but if I can find homes for things.
So I think I'm getting better.
One thing is too, I really don't buy anything.
Now I've had a comfortable lifestyle, so I can have anything I want, basically, not really.
But you know what I mean?
Interviewer:
Yeah.