Interviewer:
Did that ever happen with your son at all?
Did he ever try to get rid of something without you knowing?
Interviewee:
No, I think he's the only one that understands me.
He doesn't get it, I don't think.
That's the main reason I moved to Vermont after I retired, was he's a farmer up here.
He's awesome we're extremely close, he's my only child.
But he, and I always say this to him and we joke about it.
I'm like, I'm so glad you didn't wind up being a hoarder like me.
His farm is beautiful, everything is in its place, he's so organized.
They just got married so they have this great little house that they built and everything is in its place and they don't ever take anything.
Like my mother sent up a van for them with this carload just now and they're not going to want anything because they only have what they need.
They're real thrifty and it's awesome and it's amazing to see.
Thank god he didn't get that from me.
But he'll laugh and I still find things.
He's 34 years old, I still have his baby clothes.
I have all of his stuff from when he was a kid.
It's just I don't know, that's something I don't know if I'll ever be able to bring myself to get rid of.
But a lot of his stuff from when he was teenager, I have CDS that he doesn't listen to anymore.
Civil War jackets, whatever, and that's stuff that I've been selling on eBay.
I always give him the money.
He's like, "No, no, no, just keep it.
You're doing all the work."
I'm like, no, no, no.
He just gets a kick out of it that I still have the stuff, but I am getting rid of it for him.
But the real little baby stuff, I don't know if I'm ever going to be able to get rid of that.
But he's very gentle with me.
Everybody else is kind of mocking.
Thank goodness he's not like that, but he's very caring about the fact that I am and he gets it.
But I still like when he goes down to the basement to our fridge to get a beer or something, I'm mortified that he sees it.
But he would never say anything though.
You know what I mean?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Interviewee:
Yeah.
I'm lucky in that respect.