Interviewer:
Not necessarily, I was just curious because sometimes some people have like a track record.
They're like, "Oh yeah.
I like to keep all my toys."
Since they were young kid, but that's not the case everyone's different.
So you said you don't believe that your behavior is that severe right now, right?
Participant 015:
Yeah.
I don't think so because every electric outlet and faucet and so forth works in the house and I can get to all that stuff.
None of the entrances are blocked, to me that would be severe as far as hoarding, but we have access to all that business.
For instance, my closet of clothes is too tight and there's stuff I probably haven't worn for a number of years.
Should get rid of and it's like, "Oh, maybe I would use this."
Interviewer:
Have you ever sought to change this behavior?
Have you gone to professional help?
Participant 015:
No, I haven't.
Although my husband is the type that says, "We need to get rid of some stuff and then I occasionally will ask him, "Okay, what do you think we should get rid of?" And then he'll instead of telling me, "These papers or you should clear out the kitchen of this and this."
He'll tell me a piece of furniture and I'll say, "Yeah, but that's full of such and such.
And so how can you get rid of that without getting rid..."
So we've had these discussions in the household, but I've never actually sought help for it.
Interviewer:
Okay.
And so you mentioned that you and your husband discuss getting rid of stuff.
How does your family feel about it?
Like your children or does he ever...
Do you ever get in arguments about it?
Participant 015:
I wouldn't say arguments, but I know he feels like, "Too much stuff."
The kids I've kept some stuff specifically for them, their baby books, or pictures, or something, or a project, or craft that they've done.
And they always say, "Get rid of that stuff.
We don't want it."
But then if I pull it out when they're here, they get a kick out of it.
So I guess I kind of do it for the, "Oh my gosh.
I remember that reaction."
So I don't know.
Interviewer:
So they've never really got in huge arguments and it's never caused serious conflict between you and your family?
Participant 015:
No, not really.