Interviewer:
Okay. How important are your things for you to feel at home?
Which things or which objects are the most important to you and you spend the rest of your time with.
Interviewee:
Well, I guess there's functional items like dishes and pans and clothes and stuff like that that you have to have.
But then there's more sentimental things like pictures and scrapbooks and stuff that you want.
And I think those are the things that mean more to me, but you have to have both.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So when you think of your possessions, what makes them valuable?
How do you determine if an object has value or not?
Interviewee:
That's a good question.
Sometimes I think I get too attached to things and then don't want to give them up.
But when I really think about it, then maybe it's not so valuable.
Sometimes it's something that I've spent a lot of money on and even if it's not useful to me, I keep it just because I spent a lot on it or somebody gave it to me, it's sentimental or emotional attachment.
But if I step back and think, then I probably should just part with it.
And I think it does make me feel a little better if I give it to somebody.
If one of the kids says, "Oh, I like that picture mom."
And I'll say, "Okay, here have it."
Then I know that what I liked went to them and is still loved, I guess.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So you initially value objects based on a sentimental or emotional attachment to them, but if you can step back you can maybe judge it more as how someone else would judge it based on it's monetary value.
Is that what you mean?
Interviewee:
Yeah.
It's monetary value and it's usefulness to me.
Interviewer:
So then what would you consider trash and what do you discard?
When do you know it's time to throw something away or give it away?
Interviewee:
If it's ruined or worn terribly then that's obvious.
For instance, we just got rid of a desk chair and it had ripped arms, but I had tried to repair it at first and then the seat was worn so badly.
It was tattered so we just said, "Okay."
I said, "Let's go ahead and throw it out."
Which my husband of course complied to.
But other things that aren't so bad, clothing, if it doesn't fit or if it's not the right style anymore, for me, it takes a bit, but I could get rid of that.
So I don't know.
And there, again, we had a table and chairs recently that someone had given us and I took it.
My husband says, "Why don't you take that?
We don't need it."
And so he was right, really.
And we ended up giving them away and then that was okay rather than throw it in the trash, I guess.