Interviewer:
All right.
So this last session is going to talk about their stress and if it's caused any tension.
So does your behavior upset you at all?
Do you think it gets in the way of your daily life?
Participant 015:
Sometimes and I think part of it is the timing of it.
For instance, right now I pulled some stuff out of the basement, some painting stuff.
And then instead of taking the time to put it back, I just put it on the work bench.
And then there's some boxes down there that I was looking for a decoration or two, and I pulled them off of each other and left them on the floor because I was busy doing something else.
Then it's frustrating to me because I go back down and I think, "Oh, why didn't I put this away?"
And then sometimes the haphazard way of doing things like that ends up...
You put a bigger box on a smaller one and then it tips over and you've got a mess or something's broken.
So that stuff sometimes frustrates me.
And it's like, "If you'd only take the time to do it right."
So that's something that I really should work on.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Do you think it's ever gotten in the way of something that you've really wanted, or is it just more of a day to day it can get annoying and frustrating.
Participant 015:
I think more day to day.
Although there's sometimes when I've put things someplace, especially when something's been in one particular place, maybe the wrong place for a long time and you move it and then you think, "Oh man, where did I put it?" And so then you're shifting through things to get to what you're looking for.
And that's maddening instead of having a place to put it in the first place, then it frustrates me.
But I think mostly it's just a day to day annoyance.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Has it impacted your work at all?
Participant 015:
I'd say my living at home a little bit, but at my work work you're talking about, is that what you mean?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Like have you ever had a problem with coworkers or has a boss ever been like, "You need to organize your desk more."
Or anything like that?
Participant 015:
No, but my job is it's a...
I'm a clerk at the library and just part time.
So I go in do my job and whatever work is left, the next person takes over from there.
So I really don't have a lot of carry over from day to day.
And it's just like you go in, you do your job and you go home and that's that.
So it doesn't seem like it's affected my work.