Interviewer:
Yeah. You said that haven't been in your house since that happened, right?
Participant 17:
I've let my daughter in and even gave her a key to my house which was akin to me of standing naked in front of somebody.
She had a key to my house because I went to visit my son in the military, in Okinawa for a month, and I needed somebody to feed my parakeet.
I really didn't want a stranger coming in to do it, like my next door neighbor because I knew I would be judged and I was horrified of that.
My daughter would have opinions, but she wouldn't put me down or holler at me, so she let herself in to feed my birds during that time.
She came in once...
Because of my health issues the children totally did not let me leave my house during all of the coronavirus thing, so she did my grocery shopping and brought groceries to me.
She did not come in my house, but the last time she came she needed to use the bathroom.
There's an upstairs bathroom and a downstairs bathroom, but of course the closest bathroom... I was putting together a kitchen island to put in a lot of my kitchen appliances so I could reclaim part of my kitchen counter, and there were pieces, the box, the directions, all scattered over the kitchen floor so she had to walk over it to get into the bathroom.
That made me terribly nervous, but she was in, and she said nothing because she knows how painful it is to me to be criticized for something that I'm not sure how to fix.
Interviewer:
Okay.
It seems like your sister's very understanding, does she have children?
Participant 17:
My daughter?
Interviewer:
Yes.
Participant 17:
Yes she does.
Interviewer:
Okay, do you get to see your grandchildren a lot?
Participant 17:
Before the virus, yes, we were together a lot.
Her oldest son is autistic, Asperger's, and her youngest daughter is a mini version of my daughter, she's preppy, energetic, outgoing.
The two kids are as synchronous as night and day, but I love spending time with them.
Interviewer:
Does she seem to have... you said she understands your behavior.
Is her house as cluttered as yours or is she able to keep it under control more.
Participant 17:
I would say that her children's bedrooms look like my living room, they walk over things to get to their beds.
Her living room, her kitchen, the bathroom, are always kept immaculate.
Her husband is not a hoarder, he is not sentimental.
All the cans in the kitchen cupboard have to be labels facing forward, if anything is...
The total exact opposite of a hoarder, and his mother is very critical, so she will come through my daughter's house and criticize the things.
Kira however, is like me in that, she and I used to love going to garage sales to get little treats for the kids to do things to amuse themselves during the summer, and her husband absolutely despises me because I always bring something whenever I see her children.
It could be cookies, it could be a book, it could be a game, it could be something for us to do at that time, but I always bring something.
My grandmother did, my mother did, I do, and my daughter kind of does the same thing.
He'll tell me, "Quit bringing things for the kids."
My daughter and I have established a procedure that we go do our garage saling, and she sneaks things into the house and down into the basement.
It's a frightening situation for my grandchildren, because I come and we're playing and we're having a great time, and my daughter will say, "You're dad's going to be home in half an hour," and the kids faces turn into this look of horror, and they start picking up frantically and shoving things under the furniture, moving things to their room because he wants spotless.
She understands both sides.