Interviewer:
How did you find these people?
Were they therapists or organizers?
Participant 17:
I would not let anybody in my house.
I don't even let my children in the house because when I broke my shoulder several years ago they came in...
Because I couldn't do anything, it was my dominant arm that I broke, and they cleaned my house, which meant they put things in dumpsters, they donated.
Some things that had extreme value to me, that would have no value to anybody whatsoever, I still am bitter about them being gone.
As an example, INAUDIBLE my son who I'm closest to that's in the military, took me to a wine stop and we made T-shirts and we did all of that, and they threw it out.
I attempted seeing a therapist, and I was already seeing a therapist because I was depressed in part because of all the clutter and not knowing where to begin, and I don't think it really helped.
It helped me understand reasons why, which is why I could so readily point to significant events in the past.
I do much better if I can donate things to somebody who has a need, if I'm just filling a bag of things for the sake of filling it up and giving it away, I have pause to do that.
But if I know that somebody my age, that wears my size clothes is in need of something because there was a fire or something like that, I can donate that.
If there's somebody that needs kitchen things, as I said, usually I have duplicates of more things that I brought from my moms house that had sentimental value that now no longer are sentimental, they're just taking up space.
So I would say yes, the therapist helped, an organizer was too intimidating.
Interviewer:
Okay.
You mentioned earlier that your children came and cleaned out your house, how do they feel about your behavior?
Have you gotten in conflicts with them about it?
Participant 17:
My daughter was always similar to me, and she still is, other than she's doing a big clean out of her own and she realized I'm INAUDIBLE because she knows how I feel about sentimental things.
She has all of her teaching lesson plans from 10 years ago, and she said, "Mom, I'm never going to use these again, the curriculum is changed and it's all different."
And, I went down in my basement and looked in my file cabinet and I still had things from when I was student teaching that I had created, that nobody would ever...
Mimeographed things that were faded.
My oldest son is a minimalist.
He hates my clutter, he hated my clutter when he was a teenager growing up in my home and always said, "Let's get rid of all this," he calls it junk.
I call his house sterile because you could walk into it and you have no idea of what a person's personality is, or what they're likes and dislikes are.
It's clean and perfection.
Sometimes it feels good because it's so spotlessly clean, other times it seems like an over cleaning, I just don't like that.
That's not me.
My youngest son had many collections.
When he joined the military he couldn't keep all this stuff, so he got a storage unit and also stored a whole lot of stuff at my house, and then eventually came and took some things and threw out some things as I was rescuing things from the trash that he had either made, or his old Cub Scout uniform.
On occasion because he has traveled in the military, they're in Okinawa now, INAUDIBLE smaller there, the culture is different and it's minimalist culture, so he has adapted to less is more kind of thing.
However, he likes the fact that if he says, "Mom, do you have my Boy Scout shirt I want to show it to my son."
Or, "Mom, do you have that toy that I had, I think the baby would like to play with that."
And, 99% of the time I have rescued such a thing.
He is more forgiving, he doesn't like it, but he's more understanding.
His concern would be solely my safety, if the house caught on fire, if an ambulance had to come get me or something like that, but other than that he's accepting.