Interviewee:
And I'm weary of... I love dogs, but I'm weary around that dog because if you move to quick she'll growl or bite.
She's not friendly, she's family protector.
She's a fun dog they claim its a dog, but I used to babysit their dogs and their chickens, but this dog I will not babysit because I can not control the dog, and my son will not attempt to have me control the dog.
So, little dog is a little Jack Russell Terrier that has far more energy then I could ever put forth, and I'm not allowed to babysit that one if they go away either because it's too active and I can't move that quickly as a little dog could.
Plus, it's a very expensive dog and if she got lose [INAUDIBLE], if she got bred by another dog, if she got hit by a car, whatever.
We're talking about money, therefore I don't spend as much time at their house as I used to babysitting their animals while they did this, that, and the other.
Interviewer:
You mentioned earlier that you were a single mom and that you worked, did your behavior ever impact your work?
Interviewee:
Oh, I've never thought about that before, but yes.
I worked...
It was a county wide position, but I worked in [INAUDIBLE].
I was a counselor as well as a certified teacher.
I taught adult ed programs, I counseled them, I did preschool counseling, high school counseling, it was a whole wide variety of teaching jobs.
My desk was always cluttered, it had anything I ever needed at my fingertips.
I knew where it was, but [INAUDIBLE] someone else went in my office looking for something, they could not find it.
When I worked with special education children, my office was probably cluttered because we had puzzles, cars, sand table, an exercise bike, and all kinds of sensory sorts of things that I felt were important.
Its definitely impacted the amount of space in the office and people would say, "Interviewee, why don't you clean off your desk."
But, yes it was stuffed, but it was stuff that I knew how to access and use.
So, yes I felt that I was a hoarder then too.
Interviewer:
Did it every affect relationships with your boss or co-workers?
Interviewee:
Yes and no. It was always mentioned when they did the evaluation and they had to come up with something negative, it was always mentioned my desk needed to be straightened.
However, when they asked me for information, or a report, or facts or figures, or resources, I could always access that, so visually they didn't like it, but productively it didn't seem to affect me at all.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee:
Nor did it impair them because I always had what they needed.