I used to go and visit him before coronavirus, at least every couple of months if not every other month.
We just have very, very different values.
We love each other, we're extraordinary close, he would do anything for me and I for him, but we have such differences in priorities.
He is much more interested in money, power, and those things are the least important in the world to me.
I'm the most liberal person in the world, he is regimented, probably more so now then when he was as a child because as a child he was very carefree, and he was never particularly critical of me and we had a much closer relationship then.
They live near his wife's family who's a very wealthy family.
I was never a very wealthy person, I was a single parent raising three kids, and my husband had no life insurance and I had to work, and it was a different style of life then his wife grew up in, where it was a life of frivol where they would travel overseas and I did not.
My parents had what they had, a summer camp and that's where we spent our summers and the kids loved it, but now it's almost a one-upmanship on his part that they bought a camping trailer.
My definition of a camping trailer that I would buy would be something simple.
His had to be the most complex.
It has a fireplace, it has INAUDIBLE.
It's stunningly beautiful, but I would never spend that much money on it.
I wouldn't spend that much money on rocks and crystals, and books and other things that I treasure, but his always has to be the best of the best, probably because when he married his wife he saw what he had missed out on with me, and felt he needed to adapt to that kind of life.
He would say I don't have enough money and that I'm not prepared for the future.
No, I don't have all of those things, I'd say half.
They only have one child, specifically because they wanted to get her everything she ever wanted, and they have.
They have beautiful dogs that are pedigreed show dogs, and the purpose is they're going to breed them and make money because they could sell these dogs for $3000, $5000 a puppy.
The biggest dog I don't like, I'm terrified of that dog.
It's a Black Russian Terrier, it was a military dog and it's huge.
It probably weighs more than I do, it probably weighs 150 pounds.
It's huge.
Interviewer:
Oh my goodness, that is a huge dog.