Interviewee:
My living room is where...
Since Covid and I was stuck here and I wasn't feeling well, and my body was falling apart, I use the living room as a place to shred papers, to sort things.
For a while I was just boxing everything up neatly so like things were together, and then I realized that's not getting rid of anything.
So, I went through the boxes again and started getting rid of things, but you also could not donate so that resulted in lots of things to donate that, there are bags in the basement, there's a box that's still in the living room.
The living room is cluttered because that's my work space and it's my favorite room of the house.
It's a small townhouse and it's the middle townhouse, so there aren't many windows.
The living room has big patio door windows and I love the outdoors and the sunshine, and my squirrels and birds, and stuff like that, so I can use it.
There are, to me, pathways to go through it and I guess that's how a lot of the rooms are, that you can walk about, but not easily.
Interviewer:
Okay, is most stuff in boxes or is it a lot of furniture?
Interviewee:
Most of it is stuff and it's in boxes or piles which I know what they are, but like I said, if I died they would not realize that the stack of papers on my coffee table, as an example, have the little paid thing from my car that I need to send in to get the title, my 401K is there, some other stuff that's important that needs to be filed away.
I fill up half of that table to file away, and I'm doing better at getting it filed away, but if you walk in you would not know.
There aren't labels on things that you could tell.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee:
And my obsession with doing this has led me to make labels because my mother did that so that when I went through her house I found a little tiny rocking chair that I vaguely remember being around as a child, and on the bottom of it she had written that it was her chair as a child and the year, and I thought what a neat idea.
So, I have labeled things, like dear grandmother's jewelry, a clock that my oldest son always admired that he wanted so I've got a sticker on that.
I really don't think the kids are going to take all the time to go through that at all, but it makes me feel more secure.