Interviewer:
Then as you settled down, what happened, when you found that you weren't moving quite so much?
Interviewee:
For a long time, I had to rent rooms, but it was longer periods.
I just had no room.
It got really bad when I had an opportunity after my mother died, because I inherited a little bit of money, to be able to buy a small house.
All of a sudden, I had three times the amount of room that I've ever had, and I did need a roommate, but even with that, I still had a lot of room.
I don't think I even ever really thought about it, except that it gradually got so that there was hardly room for me to walk to my living room.
There were piles of papers and books.
I don't mind piles of books.
Those just look interesting.
But piles of paper.
Piles of all sorts of stuff lying around.
I remember once I had one roommate who was dearly loved, and I was trying to think of something to eat, because I'm not much of a cook, and I said, "I don't know what to eat."
And she opened my cupboard doors, and she said, "You know, I could eat for a year on what you have there."
And it just blew me away.
Still blows me away thinking about it.
It had something to do with not being able to say, "How can I use what I have?" as opposed to saying, "My impulse right now doesn't find anything I have appealing, so I want to go get something different."
I don't know what you'd call that, but I recognize that as being very powerful in me now.
This stay at home as really gotten me being able to use some stuff up and look at how much I have, and starting to really try to clear out cupboards and things, which has really been wonderful.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
I understand.
Now, compared to how it was in the house that you owned...
Or do you still own the house?
I'm sorry.
Interviewee:
No, I had to sell that.
Then I lived for a while at a couple of small apartments in a different town, and now I'm in a largish mobile home that, in terms of square footage, it's probably actually bigger than the house I'd had.
Again, I have to share.
I've got too much furniture.
That I'm very clear.
What I can't figure out what to do is how to replace what I have with less.
I've been going through.
I have a whole bunch of those multi-drawered plastic cabinets that you get from office supply stores and stuff, and I've been going through those and gradually throwing out the things I know I'll never use and trying to consolidate.
I've now got a lot of empty drawers, but I can't figure out how to take the next step to consolidate two of those things into one or something like that.
Because one of them is supporting a Participant that I don't have any place for.
One of them is supporting the place where I store papers I need to be able to access quickly.
This is where my lack of organizational... I mean, I know my sister-in-law would come here and she would just say, "Oh, do this here.
Do that there.
Throw that out."
You know?
It's a very different approach to things.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm AFFIRMATIVE.
Mm-hmm AFFIRMATIVE.
I totally understand.
Interviewee:
And my-
Interviewer:
Would you say that it's better now, your behavior?
Interviewee:
Yes.
Yes, I do think it's better.
I mean, if nothing else, I'm not buying something because there's part of me that's saying, oh, I have a place to put it now, because I have a couple of empty drawers.
Now more, I'm thinking of how can I consolidate what I have, and in the process, figure out what's a duplicate, what do I really not need?