Interviewer:
No, no, no. It's okay.
I'm interested in this.
That's why we're talking about it.
It sounds like there's a conflict between what you find comfortable and the aesthetic that you'd like to have your house be in-
Interviewee:
Yes.
Yes.
Right.
Interviewer:
... which is very clear clear and minimal and this other part of you.
Do you feel like it affects your ability to feel at home in your space?
What is feeling at home like for you?
Interviewee:
I think it does.
I think that... I mean, I'm sitting in my bedroom now, and I'm looking around at all the things that I wish were different.
Now, I don't know that I'm comfortable, in the sense that I'm comfortable reading in my bed, I'm comfortable working on my computer, but when I look around, there's as part of me that just goes, "Oh, my god.
There's too much stuff.
There's too much stuff."
It's not as strong as it used to be, and I don't think I feel a lot of the shame I used to feel in relation to it, but my bedroom and one small cable in my TV room are really the only places in the house that I spend much time in.
Even though I'm liking the living room, I don't spend much time in it.
Interviewer:
How come?
Is there a reason that you don't-
Interviewee:
I think what it is is that even if I like, aesthetically, the less cluttered places, I'm not used to spending time in them, so I'm having to really look at saying how do I... can I, once I get these photographs out of the way, will I be able to actually go in there and use the living room as a place to read or listen to music or listen to the radio, all the things that I do in my bedroom that is very cluttered?
I don't know where this would fit in.
This might fit better in our later discussion, but one of the things that really turned me around about my collecting stuff was an insight I had 10 or 15 years ago.
I don't know why.
I was in another place, had way more possessions then, and I suddenly had this vision of a pack rat that are known to go out and collect bright, shiny things and bring them back to their nest, and they kind of build them into the walls of their nest.
Nobody really quite knows what they do with them, but they're just fascinated, and they keep collecting and collecting and collecting.
I had this vision that this whole bunch of clutter in my house was kind of like a nest that I built around myself that kept... in some way, helped made my world safer, as a nest would make an animal feel when they were in it.
I don't know how much of that is still part of me, but understanding that really helped me be able to recognize the irrationality of some of my impulses to keep things.