Interviewer:
So you're kind of sorting through that process right now.
Interviewee:
Right.
Right.
Interviewer:
Has this behavior caused conflict for you with your family, with your friends and relationships?
Interviewee:
It's caused conflict in the sense that I had to take roommates that I didn't always like, because the ones that I was interested in were put of by my clutter.
I think I see potential conflict.
In other words, one of the things I've really been looking at is I have gone so far as to make a will and a trust, and I've tried to sort of put papers together, but I've been thinking about my brother and what happens if my family needs to get... if something does happen to me.
I'm realizing I need to put all that stuff together in one place that's clearly marked.
I'm really confronting...
This is going to be a hard one.
I got into a knitting binge a few years ago, and over time, I probably bought a couple of thousand dollars worth of knitting books and yarn, and they're all sitting there still.
I have only just barely in the last week begun to do a little bit of knitting, just to get my speed up, and to see whether this is something I really want to do or not.
If I decide I absolutely am not ever going to really use these things, then how do I get rid of them?
Because one of the things that really gets in my way, especially if I'm aware that I've spent quite a bit of money on a collection of things, to just give them away somehow breaks my heart.
If I can find people who want them, individuals, I'm okay, but to think of taking all that stuff down to Goodwill just makes me sick to my stomach, and it's not reasonable.
It's not fair.
I have a whole collection of children's books from when I was little that my mother actually willed to me explicitly because I'd expressed a lot of affection for them.
When I finally went back and looked at them, I realized that some of them are children's history books, that the history is so outdated and so racist that I can't imagine any parent nowadays even wanting their kids to look at these things.
Yet, the illustrations and the stories in them were part of what got me interested in history as a kid, because they were so well-designed for kids.