Now I'm getting to the point where I just say, "Hey, if I can't find it just chill out.
I'll run across it sooner or later."
I'll just sort of keep half looking for it.
Eventually I'm not going to get upset about it, and I did.
I found the chainsaw when I stopped looking and I was looking to do something else, and looked up and there it was behind a picture.
Interviewer:
Okay.
You said it isn't impacting your relationships with your family members.
Has it ever impacted a romantic relationship or maybe your work?
Participant 021:
No, it never affected my work.
In romantic relationships, no. I mess those all up on my own without the hoarding.
I wasn't hoarding that much when I was younger, and that's when most of the romantic...
You're 20 years old, that's all you're thinking about, and so you're constantly in relationships, where as you get older, it's not quite as important anymore.
So I don't ever remember the hoarding causing a problem or getting in the way of relationships, no. Work, no. I'm retired now.
When I was working, I went to work every day, and it wasn't really an issue other than I wouldn't invite workers that I worked with to my house simply because it's unconventional, and I just didn't want to give people that impression.
Interviewer:
Okay, but your work area was relatively clean or organized or-
Participant 021:
Well, my desk used to have a lot of papers on it.
I had a boss and I was always amazed because I would go into his office, and his desk had nothing on it.
He had a couple of trinkets on his desk and a clock, and I used to think, "How can he do this," where I had a tendency to have a lot of stuff on my desk.
But it wasn't that bad.
I mean, there were other people I work with that had three times as much stuff on their desk as I did.
So I was a little bit of a clutter on my... but not noticeable, not to where people would say, "Oh, my God, how can you find anything on your desk with all this stuff on it?" So it wasn't that bad at work.
Interviewer:
So no one ever commented or said anything?
Participant 021:
No, no one ever commented at work and said, "Oh, man."
There were other people that people would.
They'd look at it and say, "How can you find anything in this pile?"
Interviewer:
Okay.
My last thing is that I know you mentioned...
Before you said when you moved you had an auctioneer auction everything off.
Would it upset you now to do the same thing to kind of get rid of a lot of the stuff?