Participant 021:
Well, I would have to say my computer, because when I get up in the morning, that's the first thing I do pretty much every morning, is get on the computer and check out... I play at chess tournaments, so the first thing I do, some tournaments you have to move within one day, some every three days.
I go and I make all my moves on the chess games I play.
I'm into investing in stocks, so I've got to check the stock... my stock portfolio, see what's going on with that.
It's almost a ritual when I get up.
I make coffee.
I sit down at the computer, and I'm going to be there for a couple hours.
Interviewer:
So that's what you spend most of your time with, is your computer?
Participant 021:
Well, yeah, on a regular basis, every day.
I mean, I can't think of a day where I go on...
I'm not on the computer first thing, and then I'm usually back on it to check on things later in the day.
When I think about it now, I think back when I was younger, and it's like how did we get along without computers, you know?
So I find that real interesting.
Because, like I say, the stocks are really kind of important to me, and I'm learning options now, and options, it's a struggle just to understand it and learn them.
Every day I try to go a little bit farther and learn a little bit more and understand it, so it's almost like a course that I'm putting myself through.
Interviewer:
Okay.
That's kind of cool.
Stocks are pretty complicated.
Participant 021:
Oh, options, options will drive you...
But I'm just learning and I'm starting easy with covered calls, which are not real, real risky.
You even have to get permission from the brokers, because they want to check you out, because some people make some stupid mistakes, and you can lose a lot of money on options if you're not sure of what you're doing.
Interviewer:
Okay.
This next thing we're going to talk about is value.
When you think about all of your possessions, what makes them valuable and how do you determine if an object is valuable or not?