Participant 021:
Well, when I look around, I've got some cabinets that every shelf in there is full.
It's a lot of little items.
A lot of it I haven't used for years, and I know it.
Just by looking at the cabinet, I don't know everything that's in there because I can't see the stuff in the back, and it's pretty much just packed full.
There is clutter in my house, like I say.
Like, I have some exercise equipment, and it's sitting here in my living room because that's just really the most convenient place for it.
It's a pretty big piece of equipment.
I don't have much room to the bedrooms, so I stuck it in the living room.
It's like in the middle of the living room.
It's like, okay, I don't use it nearly enough so I don't want to get rid of it, but it's kind of strange.
If I invite people into my house and they walk in the front door and the first thing they see is a big piece of exercise equipment in the living room, a lot of people would think, "Well, that's a little odd."
I just, from looking around I see, I've got a lot of little tables and every one of them has got stuff piled on it.
I have a lot of papers that I need to go through.
I would say by appearance is what tells me I've got too much stuff.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Thinking back to when you said you had moved and you hired an auctioneer to get rid of everything you had-
Participant 021:
Right.
Interviewer:
How did you choose which items to keep if you kept anything?
Participant 021:
Well, I basically went through the house and there were a couple of items that I said, "Absolutely not, I don't want to sell these," so I basically put them in a separate room and said, "That stuff in that room stays," and that was it.
Interviewer:
How did you pick those specific items, though?
Were they from past family members or was it based on a monetary value to them?
Participant 021:
Well, and it's stuff that I was using, like my computers, I wasn't going to sell those because I use them.
I had an old safe that I thought, well, why would I want to sell that, because I would just have to buy a new one, because I like having a safe in the house.
I have some old coins, so it's like, okay, keep them in the safe.
So I figured, well, I'm not going to sell that because wherever I go, I want to have that so I'll keep that.
It was basically on the usage of stuff.