Participant 021:
It would upset me, but I would like to do it.
What I did with the auctioneer was, I left.
I went out to the garage and I drank beer, and I didn't put myself in there to see the stuff going.
I did see him loading stuff, but I didn't really get in the middle of it and see what the stuff was selling for.
I just sort of got myself away from it and said, "Okay, what happens happens."
It would be hard to do, but I think I would feel a sense of relief because there are so many things that when I look around the room that I say, "Oh, man, I've got to do this.
I've got to research that.
That's been here for about seven years now, and I still haven't researched it."
You get a little bit of a feeling of being overwhelmed when I look at all the stuff.
It's like, when am I going to have time to do all of this?
So I think I would feel sort of relief if I did it, but I wouldn't want to stand there...
It would be hard to do, but I think I would feel better.
Interviewer:
So you would like to change.
It's just kind of overwhelming, and you don't want to necessarily be involved with everything going?
Participant 021:
Right.
I would like to change, because like I say, I want to relocate, and it'd just be easier to relocate if I don't have stuff to take with me, especially if a lot of it isn't really too valuable.
Why should I drag it down south or out west somewhere?
Interviewer:
Okay.
That concludes all of my questions that I have for you.
The last thing is that for doing this interview you do get a gift card for $30, and we'd like to know if you would like it in the mail or on and email... or through email.
Participant 021:
Well, are they going to send me a new card, because they had sent me a gift card previously, and I still have it.
Interviewer:
Have you already been interviewed by us?
Participant 021:
Not by you but there was some study that, this was going back a ways, where they did send me a gift card and they put $20 on it.
Interviewer:
That was probably either an entirely different study or a different university, so this will be a new gift card.
END_OF_RECORDING