Participant 021:
Yeah. I have a couple of, in my living room, I've got a couple of desks in the living room.
They both have computers on them, so I can use the living room.
I mean, I have a TV set which I can get to easily.
I can get to my computers easily, but my house is a little unconventional, like I say.
I'm not real good at putting everything where it belongs.
If I buy some stuff at an auction...
Sometimes you get a little carried away, and if you go to a live auction, I might fill up the back of my truck with a bunch of items, and I'll bring them in the house and unload them, and it's just like, well, I'll just set them down in the living room because that's the easiest place to put them.
Then it may take me a few months before I get around, going through this and moving it somewhere else and everything else.
I guess the best way to describe my house is unconventional.
Interviewer:
Okay.
What would you like your home to look like?
Participant 021:
Well, ideally, I really would like to have a home... I see people's homes that are extremely clean and there's no clutter, and it's very well-organized, and I'm envious of that.
I always say, "Man, that must be nice to be able to live like that, because I don't seem to be..." I don't seem to do that, and I'm not sure why.
Sometimes it's hard for me to get rid of stuff, where I'll see stuff, and I'll say, "I haven't used this thing for five years.
Get rid of it," and I say, "Next time I go out, I'm going to donate it."
Then I pick it up and put it in the car, and I look at it and think, "Well, maybe I'll do something with it," and then I end up putting it back down.
For some reason, I struggle with just saying... I think of that rule of thumb, if you've got stuff, some people say if you've got stuff you haven't used it for two years, get rid of it.
I would really like to do that but it would be very difficult.
For instance, the paintings, the reason I got them is they're might be something valuable there, so I would be...
It would bother me to just give them away without researching each one individually and make sure that the signature on it isn't somebody... that's something that has some value to it that I could sell.
Interviewer:
What would you say your most important things are for you to feel at home?
Participant 021:
My most important things?
Interviewer:
Yeah, like, which objects are most important for you to feel like you're at home?