Participant 021:
Well, I don't put a lot of value in my material possessions.
I sort of look towards the money aspect of it.
What's valuable to me are my stocks.
I have an amount that moves every day, and I could see what that amount is, so I could see if the value's up, down, growing, where my car, I value having a car, I need a car, but my car I bought brand new 10 years ago, and it's still running fine.
I've had people say to me, "Participant 021, why don't you go out and buy yourself a new truck?
Sell some of them stocks.
Buy yourself a new truck," and it's like, I would like a new truck but I don't need a new truck, because the car's running just fine.
So I don't put a lot of value in material things.
I put more value in the securities that I have, and I enjoy trading them.
Like I say, making money in the stock market is always enjoyable.
It hurts when you're not making money or you lose money, but over the long run I'm doing okay.
Interviewer:
What about when you think about, like you said, you have multiple telescopes and a lot of paintings and multiple desks, what about those items?
When you think about them, what makes them valuable or why aren't they valuable?
Participant 021:
Well, the telescopes are valuable because astronomy is a hobby of mine, and it's just mind blowing when you do a little reading and you go out there and you look at things you've read about, and some of the things that happen that go on in space, just the speed of light alone...
The other night I went out and I looked at the Andromeda Galaxy, which is two and a half million light years away, which you can see with the naked eye.
For me, it blows my mind to think, to just try to...
We can't comprehend that distance, because light travels at 186,000 miles a second, and it takes two and a half million years to get here.
So things like the telescope, I do put value in that, because it really motivates... I mean, it's like having a time machine.
You're looking back in time.
When I look at that galaxy, the light left there two and a half million years ago, and so I'm looking back two and a half million years.
I find that valuable, because it motivates me to look for other things.
But other things, my computer is valuable because that leads me out to the outside world where you can see just about everything now.
Interviewer:
What I'm getting from this is that you kind of value things that are interesting to you and help you learn, so you value your computer because you can access to chess games or tournaments and the stock market and-
Participant 021:
Right.