Interviewee:
Well, the only way I would describe it is messy.
I think people that hoard, including myself, they're very...
Their houses are usually very unorganized, like mine is, and that can be frustrating.
I have bulletin boards in probably three or four different rooms, the cork bulletin boards, up on the wall, and every one of them is just loaded with pieces of paper for different things.
I look at them and I get a little frustrated, because it's like, I don't even know what's on there.
Sometimes I'll say, "Okay, every time I put something new on the bulletin board, I'm going to take two things down."
That's what I think it looks like, when I look at a bulletin boards and just packed with a bunch of clips and different pieces of paper in there.
Interviewer:
Would you say that there's a way to tell if someone has hoarding disorder without being in their home?
Interviewee:
No, I don't think you can tell.
The car of course, if you see them driving a car packed, but other than that...
It's sometimes the outside of the house I think.
As far as me, I think my house, the outside is not cluttered at all, but down the road there's a house where it's just packed, stuff that is totally worthless, old tractors that are rusted out that haven't ran for 25 years are sitting there.
So I think those three things.
If I drive by that house, I'd be willing to bet the guy's a hoarder inside the house just because of all the garbage he's got outside the house.
Interviewer:
Okay.
I know earlier you mentioned that you had read some articles on hoarding disorder, but where else do you get your information, and where have you heard of it?
Interviewee:
Well, I like to watch that television show, Hoarders, once in a while, because I'm sometimes amazed at how bad people can get, with rats in the house and can't walk through the rooms, and they have to walk over the stuff, on top of it.
That inspires me a little bit when I watch that.
I just think how can people allow it to get that bad, and that's sort of...
I'm hoping that it inspires me to say, step it up a little bit, cleaning out some stuff, you know?
I've started to now, every time I go out or I go to the recycling center, I try to fill up my trunk with stuff that I say, "Look-it, I'm not going to use this anymore."
Maybe it's metal.
They accept metal at the recycling center, so I'll try to take two or three bigger items that are sitting around in the garage and recycle them.
I like watching that Hoarder's program every now and then.
Interviewer:
When you watch it, do you ever watch whether they bring in an organizer or a therapist?
Do you watch that part too?