Interviewer:
How severe would you say your behavior is now?
Do you think it's a problem?
Interviewee:
It's not a problem for me other than the fact that I a lot of times can't find things.
I think it's severe in that sense, and I'm starting to think that... and for my age it doesn't really matter too much anymore, but I'm thinking that maybe it's attention deficit disorder, because I've noticed that a lot of times I'll be interested in something and I'll buy it, and then once I get it, it's a good feeling, I got it.
But then it sits there and I lose interest in it.
I don't know if that's part of the hoarding thing or what, but...
Interviewer:
How long does it take you to lose interest in an item?
Is it like a week or a day or honestly after you get it, in the next few hours you're kind of like, "Oh, oh well."
Interviewee:
It depends on the item.
Sometimes I'll lose interest in a matter of a day.
Other times I may use it a couple of times and then I lose interest in it.
The paintings, if I buy some paintings, I basically bring them home and put them up against the wall.
I don't hang them up.
I just pretty much put them in a room and that's it.
I sort of forget about them.
So those, I lose interest in them real fast.
What are you going to do with the painting?
I don't have a spot to put them in, and it's like, okay, one day I think I'll go through all of these and research each one of them, and maybe I'll find something valuable.
It depends on the item.
I recently bought a drone because I thought it would be fun to fly that, and I got that and I've never opened the box and even assembled it.
I'm going to but I lost interest in that pretty quickly.
Interviewer:
Do any of your family or friends get upset over your behavior, or have you had conflicts with them about it?
Interviewee:
No, because I don't have a lot of family left, and my sisters are all kind of far away, so it's not like they come over often.
It's more of I visit them on holidays and stuff.
So it's not something that I broadcast when I get together with them, that, "Oh, yeah, I've got 50 paintings laying around the house I don't know what to do with."
I generally don't bring it up, so I don't even think they're aware of it.
Interviewer:
How about any of your friends or neighbors?