Interviewee:
The neighbors, no, because I generally don't...
Out in the country, I meet with the neighbors outside.
It's not like I invite them into the house very often.
It's just not something I do.
It's partly because... I don't think my house is a mess, but it's not like a standard house where everything is neat and in its place.
It's like, I put stuff down, it pretty much stays there until I need it again, wherever it is.
Interviewer:
Have you ever sought to change your behavior?
Have you sought professional help other than the one time you moved?
Interviewee:
No, not professional.
No. I've done a little reading online.
I've watched that hoarding television show, and I'm amazed at some of the things people do there, and that sort of inspires me because I'm aware of how bad things can get.
However, I don't feel I would ever get that bad because I just, to me, some of those things...
Living in a house that you can't walk through is a little ridiculous.
I have bedrooms that are a little bit difficult to get around.
I got to wiggle around a couple of items because they're sitting there, but I can get into every room of my house.
It's just sometimes it's a little bit tight.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Can you describe your house?
Are there rooms that you...
You said that you can use every room in your house, right?
You can use your kitchen, all the bathrooms, the bedrooms?
Interviewee:
Oh, yeah, the kitchen, the bathroom, the living room, those are fine.
I get around them.
I mean, there's a lot of stuff, like I have a little hallway going from the living room to the bedrooms, and there's probably 20 paintings just leaning up against the wall in the hallway.
Now, I can still use the hallway.
It's just it narrows it a little bit because I don't have anyplace else to put the paintings, so they're all just leaning up against the wall.
I have three bedrooms.
Two of them are pretty well filled.
One of them has four telescopes in there on tripods, so they have a tendency to take up a lot of room with the tripod opened up and the telescope in there.
I can get around that room, but when I go in there, I have to work around the telescopes.
It's not like I can just zoom across the room.
It's like, well, I got to go around the telescopes to get to the window.
Interviewer:
Are you currently living alone or do you have-
Interviewee:
Yes, I live alone.
Interviewer:
What about the room that you sleep in?
Is the bed, does it have stuff on it, or can you-
Interviewee:
No.
No. The bed is clear.
Interviewer:
It sounds like mainly it's just the floor space that has stuff kind of on it, like paintings and the telescopes.