Interviewee:
Yeah. I think sometimes people, it can go along with like binge eating disorder as well as a way to sort of...
If you think about hoarding is like amassing all these things as sort of a protection from other people.
And I think definitely people use food as well sometimes to sort of build in a barrier to relationships and to sort of dealing with feelings as well.
So I think sometimes it goes along with eating disorders.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
And then you also mentioned prior that for you sometimes quality of life issues arise because of your behaviors.
Would you say that your difficulties with clutter upset you and can you describe a time where these difficulties have gotten in the way of something that you really wanted?
Interviewee:
Yeah.
It upsets me when I see areas of my house that have become sort of overwhelmed by my clutter, that upsets me or when I just see my house, even the areas that are organized but there's more stuff than I want.
I know that if I could more easily get rid of things that I have, that my home wouldn't look as cluttered.
So I definitely feel that on a regular basis, whether it's daily or just like weekly, it comes up when I see my physical environment, my home.
Other times that it has caused me distress, I think when I wanted to be able to be the kind of person who just says to people, "Come on over any time."
I do not feel like I could do that.
Or if my kids...
My kids don't always have friends over and they do sometimes, but I want advanced notice.
And that part of it is just, I have a strong sense of privacy but also part of it is wanting to be able to kind of tidy up.
And then conflict with my partner over just too much stuff that we both feel it sort of create anxiety, our home isn't as soothing as we want it to be and knowing that some of that responsibility I bear for not more being able to just get rid of things.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
I can imagine that, that must be hard.
Can you just you describe a specific time, maybe a certain situation where your difficulties with clutter got in the way of something that you really wanted?
If not, that's totally fine.
What you described was great, but I'm just wondering if there's a certain situation that you can recall where your difficulties with clutter got on away of something that you wanted.