Interviewer:
No, no problem at all.
No, you're totally fine.
Thank you so much.
Okay, so that concludes the listing portion.
Now we're going to kind of move into the more discussion-based questions.
So the first question is, can you please describe your difficulties with clutter and how long this has been going on?
Interviewee3:
Oh, geez.
I can remember from being a very young child, being four, five years old, I liked to get things.
I liked to buy things that I always saved them and I needed to organize them.
I had big DRAWERS under my bed and I would spend hours like organizing them, trying to keep them neat because I save so much and trying to keep my room neat because I like organization.
Even then, I had trouble getting rid of things.
I wasn't the kind of kid who wanted to get something new and then throw away the old stuff.
I wanted to have them for everything.
So it was a matter of really trying to keep things organized.
So I was very young.
I mean, I was definitely four or five years old when I was already having the need to try to keep things organized.
And then just, it continued.
And now as an adult, it's much more with papers.
I'm always falling behind.
I can't keep up with things because I'm sort of compulsive in making sure I take care of everything thoroughly.
If it's mail, I want to read it thoroughly.
And then I have trouble keeping up with the demands of life because I can't process things fast enough.
And instead of just getting rid of them, I have a tendency to collect them, wanting to get through them thoroughly enough once.
I can, I do recycle them but I have problems with that.
So it's really been very consistent throughout my life starting from, I would say the age of four or five.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So you said this has been going on since about age four or five, and it really stems from your difficulties of being able to get rid of things.
You find organization aesthetic, but getting to that place is difficult.
Would you agree?
Interviewee3:
Yes.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee3:
And I am somewhat work organized.
I mean, I think that helps prevent the problems from being worse than it is, but yeah.
Interviewer:
And how severe would you say that your behavior is now?
I know you said it's kind of been consistent, but how severe do you think it is?
And do you believe that your behavior is a problem?