Interviewee:
I have a really hard time with that.
So sometimes it's just that I recognize that we have a space issue or my partner will sort of try to push me toward that.
And so that's really cool.
Sorry, I got interrupted.
That's really cool.
And so I think...
So I have a lot of bivalence but if I see that as I said, space is an issue, I'm not using something, I remind myself, it's inanimate, it's not going to be upset with me or sad, but that's very hard for me.
So I try to use cognitive behavioral therapy to sort of talk myself through rationally getting rid of it.
It's much easier for me to donate things than to actually throw them away.
So it's helpful if I could donate it Getting rid of it, it's much easier for me to donate things than to actually throw them away.
So it's helpful if I could donate and think, "Okay, somebody else can use this."
And it can be better used by somebody else than just putting it in a landfill.
That upsets me for the item and it upsets me for the world because we already have to WASTE problems so it's much harder for me to throw things away.
But sometimes, that's what you have to do if it's an old shirt with holes in it, you really can't donate that.
Sometimes my partner will tell me to take a picture of it or, it's okay and just get rid of it.
And I find that, of course, even though I think I'm going to be tormented, I don't even remember all the things that I've thrown away.
I'm not tormented.
Interviewer:
Yeah, absolutely.
So you would say, even though if it's difficult to get rid of some of the stuff that you know deep down and don't really mean much to you, you try to bring it down to, okay.
What do I find valuable?
What really means the most to me?
And then that's kind of how you go through your process.
Interviewee:
Yes.
And what am I going to actually use?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Okay.
Interviewee:
Or be able to keep in an organized way.
Interviewer:
Right.
So what do you think are the most important differences between normal saving behavior and like collecting and then hoarding?