Interviewer:
Yes. So you really highlighted the whole keeping papers and then also some memorabilia from your kids, are those mainly the parts of your home that you would consider cluttered and what areas are the most cluttered and what are in those areas that are cluttered?
Participant 23:
I mean, we are cluttered everywhere. You could just tell, even in the areas that... It's not like a minimalist house, every shelf has things on it. So that's just general. When you walk into a house, you can see if it's a minimalist house or it's a really people who have a lot of stuff. We tend to have more stuff. But the areas that are, I guess, the most clutter or where I sit like on the couch, they're always piles of papers next to the couch or on the couch or behind the couch, or all three of those things. So it's where I spend my time whether I'm working or not. It's where I sit to do things. There's some of that in the living room. 
And then we do have some clutter problems, like I said, in the basement, that's kind of our overflow area. And so it tends to really overflow with stuff. And also closets because there isn't a lot of storage in the house, closets tend to be overly full. It's not the kind of thing where you open the closet door and everything's falling out, but there's stuff on the floor and there's stuff on hangers and then their piles of things on a shelf on top. And it's always more full than is ideal for being user-friendly because we can't find things easily. So a lot of the storage areas, as I said are kind of above capacity and they're not really as useful as they should be or as tidy because there's too much stuff in there. So we have some of that in the kitchen because we have some shelves there there's sort of overly full.
I said about the living room. And my bedroom closets and we have on that third floor, we have an office space that ends up being overflow storage and that gets... I clean it every so often, but it gets cluttered, very cluttered with simpler papers like our daughter's schoolwork that we see because I save some of it, memorabilia, things that we have, photo album, photos that need to be put in albums that haven't put in yet, things like that. We have some of that in the dining room, too. We have like projects that are sort of in process, but aren't finished and that bleeds into spaces that we would like clear like a dining room shouldn't really have a photo project in it.