Interviewee3:
It's all relative.
I think my problem is somewhere between mild and moderate just in terms of...
They're definitely quality of life issues I would prefer.
It's an issue, my house isn't always as neat as I would like it to be because of clutter.
And so hosting can be an issue for us because it becomes stressful.
We have to clean up before we can host.
If spontaneously drops by, we're not kind of people where the house is in a condition that we feel comfortable with just people spontaneously being at who aren't members of our close family.
So there are quality of life issues that come up, but it's not a problem.
I have my aunt, no one entered her house for the last 20 years she lived there and it was...
Eventually, it had to be torn down because it was so bad.
So I can see that I have issues.
I can see that I'm also a much more functional person than blood relatives who had worst manifestation of it.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Okay.
So you would say that although you find that there are potentially quality of life issues, that your difficulties with clutter is somewhat manageable.
Interviewee3:
Yes.
I would say at this point.
Mm-hmm .
Interviewer:
Okay.
And have you ever sought to change your behavior by going to professional or talking to anybody about that?
Interviewee3:
You know, I've been in therapy for a very long time but I've had other issues... I don't usually deal with the hoarding tendencies that directly, there are other issues that have been more pressing.
I have anxiety, and I've had depression, and at one time had eating disorders.
So hose have been more of the primary things that I was addressing, but I have also, I think, talked about the hoarding issues at times.
It just hasn't been a focus of the therapy that I have thought.
So I certainly had gotten professional help and I think I've talked about it.
But again, it's not really the focus because I think it's more manageable and there have been other issues that are more pressing.
But it's certainly a part of my personality and my therapist I think have been aware of it at times.
Interviewer:
Yeah, absolutely.
And when you started seeing your therapist, how did you find this person?