Interviewee:
So I live in a single family home that has five bedrooms.
It's an older home and I say that because it doesn't have a ton of storage automatically.
People in the '30s, didn't have a need to collect a lot of stuff.
So it's automatically harder there are no like walk-in closet things like that, so that's an issue.
It has an unfinished basement where we tend to just store a lot of stuff and like stuff builds up over time.
And then, my partner and I ever so often like try to go through and get rid of things in that extremely difficult for me because we're trying to keep things organized.
We have trouble finding things that we want because we have so much stuff.
And then, we have common areas of the house where we all spend a lot of our waking hours.
We have two children who are 16 and 18.
We a lot of the time we spend time together in the living room and that's where...
And especially right now, I'm working from home.
So I have papers, but I always have papers even when I'm not working from home.
If it's stuff like mail, things that the kids have given me that I want to read, just stuff that accumulates.
And so every so often I like do an intervention because I'll collect the papers behind the couch or next to the couch or on the couch.
And every so often I find that it's too much, it's overwhelming.
It doesn't look good.
And so I like do an intervention and force myself to get rid of things.
And then it starts collecting up again.
So I do that.
I kind of forced that to happen in the common areas.
In bedrooms and stuff, I'm actually pretty neat.
My car is very, very neat.
I'll I keep nothing extra in my car.
So it really depends on the area, the area of the home.
Coming from a family...
My aunt was had a really, really significant hoarding problem.
My mother is kind of like my aunt, except she's super organized so she has tons of stuff, but everything has a place.
She's kind of fascinating like that.
And so my house...
I'm not able to be as neat and organized as my mother, but I'm not like my aunt.
We have access to all the areas of our house, but it's just sometimes there's just we'll keep our recycling in front of the door and then it's hard to get out.
But it's nothing where... I mean, I know how bad things can be and it's not like that.
We have use of all the rooms of our house.
It's just that sometimes things pile up a bit and get cluttered.
Interviewer:
Right.
Of course.
So you-
Interviewee:
I that enough about my house?
Do you need CROSSTALK?