Participant 24:
Number one, I wouldn't want to pay for it.
Number two, even though I do counseling in another field.
I never thought about that.
I don't know that it would be that much help.
Interviewer:
How come?
What do you think that would be like?
Participant 24:
Well, I like books.
I've talked to this little group of people.
I've done things and sure, something has made me burst with energy to start on something, but I never get finished with it, of getting rid of it or sorting it out.
And you can't just throw, at least this is coming from me and it's true of most people, I think.
You can't just throw things out that are financially worth something.
Especially if they're good artwork or something like that.
And that takes time and energy to do that.
Interviewer:
So it sounds like you don't think that the problem is that you don't have the motivation.
The problem is just having the time and energy to do the task of getting through organizing all of it.
Participant 24:
Well, that's only recently.
In the past, it isn't.
I had lots of energy, because I used to buy things on eBay.
Why not sell things on eBay?
And I started to sell a few things on eBay, but it just became a pain of taking up the time to find something, to mail it in and take it to the post office and do all that.
Interviewer:
So you feel like the idea of a counselor or somebody like that, wouldn't be helpful to you, because you don't feel like that's the kind of help you need.
What you need is to just have the time and energy to focus on doing it.
Participant 24:
At this point.
Interviewer:
And the desire, it sounds like it's not your priority.
Participant 24:
Even all the way along, I think so.
Because I had other things to do that were more interesting.
Interviewer:
That makes total sense.
Now I'd like you to think kind of more generally about these sorts of problems, either just clutter problems or hoarding disorder.
And when you think about it, what do you think is a difference or the line between a normal kind of saving behavior?
Maybe somebody who collects things or somebody who just has a lot of stuff, and somebody who has a problem with saving, like a clutter problem or hoarding disorder.
Participant 24:
Well, when you say that, I think in my case, it depends on what it is.
Because I am a collector because I collected the bottles.
Well, my husband and I collected the bottles together.
And we used to have them displayed.
But then, well, of course I sold some of those off when he passed away.
Some of the things of mine are actually collections.