Interviewer:
... this in your home where you spend time, so the computer room and the kitchen, as being especially cluttered places.
And I wanted to talk you through the kinds of items you keep and how you make decisions about when you're going to keep something versus when you're going to get rid of it.
So if you were to just kind of look around your home wherever you are right now, and think about your stuff, how do you decide when it's time to throw something away?
Participant 24:
Well, INAUDIBLE.
I'm in the kitchen now, so if I was deciding to give away something to get rid of something here, it would be that it's taking up too much space in, let's say a cabinet or a drawer.
The drawer has got too much in it or the cabinet too much in it, like cooking pots and pans and forks and knives and those kinds of things.
That's how I would decide here.
Interviewer:
So let's think about, for example, your computer room, let's say you needed some more space in there.
Participant 24:
Well, my computer room, it is really a cluttered room.
Well, I have three places that are unnecessarily uttered, that's one of them.
That ends up having many different things and items other than what pertains to what I'm doing with a computer.
Because for 15 years, I did grief counseling for pet loss.
So I accumulated a lot of books on grief and dogs and people and et cetera.
And there wasn't room in the third room where I keep books.
So I put more books, I bought bookshelves and put more into the computer room.
How do I decide?
Well, I decided when I decided to retire from doing the grief counseling, I did get rid of some of the books.
I thought I don't need all these books anymore.
So, that was easy to do.
Because it really wasn't emotional things there.
Except some of the dog books were, because they were things I had before.
It's a corner desk or I have the computer in the middle and there's shelves on either sides of it.
And I have two file drawers there, and every time I go in to file something like a medical paper or something, it's getting so stuffed.
So, every time I open it, I think, "I've got to clean this out."
But I never get around to it.
Interviewer:
So if you were to go back to that process of getting rid of those books, for example.
When you were going through your books, how did you decide which ones you were going to keep and which ones you were going to get rid of?