Interviewee:
Well in the cabinets in the bathroom.
You know, like under the cabinet.
We have cabinets over the toilet.
We have a lot of storage.
Yeah, for me, I have a bedroom in my house.
We just moved a year ago.
We moved from a house that's half the size of this house so we thought, "Oh boy we're going to have all this extra space."
When we got here it was like, "Oh my gosh I have all this stuff I don't know what to do with," so I have a whole bedroom that I keep the door closed, because it's just piled with stuff that I haven't figured out what I'm going to do with.
We've been sort of kicking around the idea of making that bedroom into a closet to hang, because it's a lot of clothes and things like that.
Anyway, a lot of that stuff is in there and I keep the door closed because then I don't have to look at it until I go in there.
Sort of out of sight, out of mind, for me.
Interviewer:
Do you think that the space, the bedroom, would be filled if you hadn't just moved, or is this part of the moving process for you, just putting everything that wasn't unpacked yet in that space?
Interviewee:
Well, if I had a place to put it, I mean the reality is I probably need to get rid of some of it, but some of it is stuff I don't want to get rid of.
It's not just clothes, there are some family photos and things.
My mother passed away last year and over the past five years I've had to bring a bunch of her stuff into my house, so it's a lot of photos and keepsake things that I have from her that I haven't really developed a good system for storing.
A lot of that stuff is still in boxes or just in piles.
Then I have a lot of clothes that don't fit in the closets too.
I had this problem at the other house, just over the years it evolved into that because I have a tendency to buy things, but I don't get rid of stuff when I bring new things in, so that creates clutter overtime if you don't get rid of stuff when you're bringing new stuff in.
Interviewer:
Has this ever caused any problems with family or friends?