Interviewer:
Okay well so it sounds like growing up your mother also kept a lot of items and didn't make, discarding or keeping things manageable probably wasn't her first priority.
When do you think you first started to accumulate items above what other people were?
Interviewee5:
It was after college because that's when I got married.
I guess because I went to college after high school, and I married a guy that I met in college and we were only married for like four years and we were divorced and I was single for like 23 years before I met my husband, so I lived alone in an apartment and in the house that I had.
It was a three bedroom, two bathroom house.
I moved from a two bedroom apartment.
My apartment was pretty packed and when I moved into the house it was like, "Oh I have the space now," well having extra space, I filled it up little by little over the years.
I didn't have anybody living there.
It was just me so it didn't matter if I wanted to keep everything.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm AFFIRMATIVE because you could, it was your space.
Interviewee5:
Right.
I wasn't ever going to get remarried again and then low and behold he came into my world and it was a real wake up call.
That was all about the time my mom was, things were failing with her health.
I had to make logical decision.
When my husband came into my life and we got married he had to have a place to hang his clothes in the closet, and that was a real challenge.
To answer your question, I started accumulating things when I was a young adult after I got out of college, after I was divorced the first time and had my own place living alone.
I think living alone probably.
If I had been married and with someone all the years, I may not have accumulated as much.
Interviewer:
Yeah it was the fact that you had the space and there was nothing really stopping you at that point from doing it.
Interviewee5:
Yeah, but now there's someone else in the house and we have other things to spend our money on, that's the other thing.
I can't just spend all my money on me.
Now I have to spend, we have our money that we spend on other things.
I realized after going through that with my mom that, "You have enough.
You don't need to just keep accumulating."
Now it's a matter of well if I really want it, let me find something I can get rid of.
It's kind of a bargaining thing.
I'm not saying I'm successful at doing that, every time I buy something, but I do think about it.
Interviewer:
Yeah it's something that's new, well newer, and certainly has been happening for a shorter timeframe than the other thought of just no need to discard when acquiring a new item because there was space and there were different priorities at that point.
Interviewee5:
Yep.