Participant 25:
If it's broken I'll get rid of it, or if I'm tired of it.
Problem is I don't get tired of my stuff like some people do.
My husband is the opposite.
He's like, "Oh just throw it away.
We're not using it.
Let's just throw it away."
Then a few months later he's like, "oh I wish I had blah, blah, blah."
I said, "Yeah we just threw one away and now you want to go buy one."
Well to me that's wasteful.
If it's something I know that I'll never use, I will get rid of it.
If it's something, like I had a water ski in my garage that I had been holding onto for like 20 years and I hadn't used it.
Now I'm older and I'm never going to be on water skis again probably, so I finally got rid of the water skis, you know, but it had been out in my garage for 20 years taking up space.
I have a wedding dress from my first marriage that I keep, I have intentions of ...
See I would rather donate stuff, especially if it's not broken, I would rather donate it than throw it away, because that makes me feel better to know that somebody else is going to benefit from it.
I have started donating a lot of my clothes and shoes to a women's shelter.
That's how I justify it.
It makes me feel better if I can direct it to a charitable need.
Interviewer:
Having the ability to donate the item rather than just simply discard it and know it'll end up in a landfill, that makes it easier to give up the item in a way?
Participant 25:
Yes.
Again, I don't like to throw away things that are in good, working condition.
I have good clothes that I may just not be able to fit into but they're nice clothes, so rather than throw it away I'd rather somebody else get the benefit of it.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
That makes sense.
It seems to tie back into, you seem to want to, that objects have uses, and so if they have a use why would you discard it?
Especially if there's going to be waste that goes into producing a new item of the same exact quality that you purchased anyways.
Participant 25:
Yeah, yes.
Interviewer:
Whenever you make the decision to start donating, or to discard, how do you end up there in the first place?
Is it because maybe you've bought some new clothes and you need to make space for them so you start to think about what things you can get rid of?