Interviewee5:
That's one of them, yeah.
On certain days I'll just get up and say, "Okay I'm tired of this pile and I'm going to go through it and I'm going to get rid of what I don't need," and I'll find a place for the other stuff.
I do have days where I go through, a mood change I guess.
I'll say, "Okay I'm going to clean this up because it's driving me nuts."
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Interviewee5:
I tend to have piles of paper.
At work I do more than I do at home, but right now I'm working from home so I have these piles that I need to go through, because some of it can be discarded.
It's one of those things, it takes time.
It's like, "Oh my gosh what if I throw something away and then I need it?" I'll go make sure I don't need it before I throw it away.
Interviewer:
Yeah, which can be hard because you don't necessarily know when you'll need an item.
Interviewee5:
That's right, yep.
I have a tendency to hang onto it longer thinking either I might need it or I might use it again, and then down the road it's like, "Okay I haven't used this in 20 years," like the water ski, and I'm too old to do it, so it's time to get rid of it.
Interviewer:
Okay, yeah.
You also mentioned, this hasn't come up as much, you mentioned sentimentality as a reason that you keep items, but most of our conversation has seemed to come back to usefulness, or desire to have choices and variety, especially when it comes to clothing.
Do you have any items that are very precious to you for sentimental reasons?
Interviewee5:
Oh yeah, like the stuff I have from my mother, like photos.
That's been a big source of contention for me and my husband, because he doesn't hang onto anything.
Basically when he and I got married he just basically had clothes that he, he didn't have furniture or anything because he was just renting a place.
He didn't come with anything, but I had a house full of stuff.
Then I brought my mom's stuff in.
I mean there's just so much in the way of photos and family memory type things that I still, I guess I'll die before I get rid of some of those because they're photos, they're family photos.
I mean you don't throw them away.
I could have them digitized.
I could get them organized, but there's so many of them.
Interviewer:
Yeah, to go through.