Interviewer:
Okay, so hoarders, more out of control, messy cars, maybe lower IQ, although it sounds like that could not always be the case.
Thinking about where you get information about hoarding disorder, it sounds like some of it is from those TV shows.
Are there any other places where you get information about hoarding disorder or where you've gotten information about hoarding disorder before?
Interviewee:
I did Google it a couple of times, more out of curiosity, but no, pretty much, the TV shows.
Interviewer:
What do you think about when you hear the words hoarding disorder, if it's anything different?
Interviewee:
I think I want to go to their houses, see what they have.
I went to my 55th high school reunion and there was a couple there who you would consider them hoarders, absolutely.
They have totally...
They invited me to their house.
They have a huge house and they even have motorcycles in their hallways.
He owns 50 motorcycles.
He was a professional motorcycle racer.
He redoes vintage motorcycles.
His house is floor to ceiling with plastic bins that are labeled with motorcycle parts.
You can get to their...
They can get to their bed.
Their house is very much like mine, but it's clean.
It's clean, but it's packed full of stuff.
He also loves trains, so he has a model train set up all the time.
She likes to paint.
There's that kind of stuff.
They're a very, very interesting couple and I really enjoy going through their house and hearing about their life and hearing about all their stuff.
If you call them a hoarder, yeah, they would...
Well, their house looks like mine, yeah.
I would say their house is even a little worse than mine because they didn't have any space in their kitchen for bringing stuff in.
It was interesting.
Interviewer:
It was interesting?
Interviewee:
Yes.
Interviewer:
Does your hoarding ever get in the way of your daily life?
Interviewee:
No, not at all.
Not at all my daily life.
When I know that company is coming, then I do not take the pictures off the walls around here.
I mean this is where Jerry and I live.
If somebody is coming in, I am not trying to impress anybody.
No, they usually come over and they look at the pictures, but my desk is piled high.
INAUDIBLE piled high.
The kitchen and the great room, which people come in the back door.
They're in the kitchen and they're in the great room.
If I don't want them to see this, then I can just block it off.
They do see all of the toys and the INAUDIBLE Mrs. Claus collections, but they can walk around the room.
I have plenty of seating.
I have meetings here with 20 people.
I serve a meal and I can do all of that in those two rooms.