Interviewee7:
Let me go back to the last question again also.
Interviewer:
Sure.
Interviewee7:
The clothes, I prefer to sell them on Craigslist.
I put... I had 20 pairs of jeans.
I put 20 pairs of jeans for $10 on Craigslist and nobody bought them.
I put them on for $5 and nobody bought them.
I prefer to sell clothes or anything on Craigslist because I make all these friends that come to the house that want the stuff.
Sometimes they'll come to buy clothes and I just give it to them, but then again, that goes back to I like to see that somebody else is going to enjoy what I have enjoyed.
Now, this question...
What was this question?
Interviewer:
What do you think are the most important differences between what is considered "normal" saving behavior, such as collecting, and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee7:
The differences?
Interviewer:
Yeah, the differences between what most people would consider normal saving behavior like collecting and then hoarding disorder.
Interviewee7:
I would say that people who collect usually are limited to a certain item or a certain category.
I have a lot of categories that I'm interested in collecting.
I have a friend that actually he a hoarder collector, and he started a business called Hank's Memorabilia because he collected the same things that I do, Mikey Mouse and all that kind of stuff, toys.
He loves toys.
He became a millionaire with this business because he started selling his collections.
He still has a couple of things.
He just sold his business, but he still has a couple of things.
He had a warehouse.
He had a few things around his house, but there again, it was his wife that limited.
If it was just him, it would have been different.
He had a few things around his house and then his collections were in this warehouse.
My kids have suggested...
They have said, "Mom, why don't you just put them in the plastic bins?
[INAUDIBLE] I told you that."
"Well, if they're in plastic bins, no, that doesn't give me pleasure to go around and see them and look at them.
The difference between a hoarder is I think that a hoarder keeps everything and a collector is limited to certain types of things or certain items.
Interviewer:
Thinking about hoarding disorder, how is that either the same or different from your collecting?
Interviewee7:
From my collecting?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
It similarities or differences between how you collect versus someone or what you describe as hoarding versus someone that might have hoarding disorder.