If the Coast Guard son...
We used to have their children a lot.
We don't know because of COVID, but he would call and say, "Can I bring the kids up for a few days?" They can walk into their playroom and everything is arranged so that they can play right there.
Then underneath that, I have two bedrooms.
The one is the guest bedroom I was talking about and the other one is a smaller bedroom with a twin bed.
That's where my grandchildren stay.
There's three of them so they have those two bedrooms and a bath.
Then underneath that is another...
It's a music room.
It's where my son used to play with his band.
There's still two drum sets down there and a lot of music sound equipment that I don't know what to do with and I would like to sell, but I don't know what I have.
I took it apart to move it, and then I couldn't put it back together.
So now we don't have surround sound or anything.
There's a couch that can pull out to a double bed down there.
Then I can have company stay there too.
What we're putting on is a sun room that will come off of the eBay room and the dining room with entrances to both.
That will be 20 feet by 14 feet.
I can move some of the furniture.
I don't go out and buy anything new anyway, anytime.
I buy from Craigslist if I need something.
I think when Jerry moved in, he bought us a new mattress, and that's the only new thing that has come into the house.
When my parents died, I inherited a lot of their antiques, so I have plenty of furniture to move into the new room CROSSTALK the house.
Then we have another house in Florida.
Do you want that one too?
Interviewer:
Do you spend a significant amount of your time there?
Participant 27:
Four to five months out of the year.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Do you have a similar amount of things down there?
Participant 27:
I do collect things down there, but what I have down there, I have purchased down there like at flea markets and stuff.
I am Mrs. Claus at Hersheypark for 21 years, so I collect Mrs. Clauses.
There are a lot of Mrs. Clauses down there and some pictures, but pretty much other than that, it's basically...
It's a one bedroom, one bath house on the beach.
We have a trailer that sleeps 12 and that's where our guests stay.
I do have a lot of stuff there, but it's not where I collect my stuff.
Interviewer:
Gotcha.
Thinking about your place in Pennsylvania, where you keep most of your stuff, how important are your things for you to feel at home?
Participant 27:
Extremely important.