Interviewee:
My children are totally disgusted.
They actually don't give me things anymore.
When they were young adults...
As far as even young adult, my daughter, she had her PhD, and she was living in Hoboken, New Jersey.
She came across people who would throw... just put things in that trash just because they didn't want them instead of finding somebody who did want them or taking them to Goodwill.
That was too much trouble.
They would just go and put them in the trash.
She brought me a VCR player.
That was back then when it was only VCRs.
My other kids would do the same.
They would find something and say, "Oh, Mom would like this," and they would bring it to me, but now that they have spouses, it's a totally different story.
Now, my grandchildren...
Well, my son is a lawyer for the Coast Guard, so Coast Guard has been a big part of his life.
I'm Coast Guard also.
When my grandchildren were born, they had little Coast Guard outfits.
I got them Coast Guard chairs and Coast Guard books and Coast Guard puzzles and the whole bit.
Well, their mom just throws them away.
That kind of kills me because those are meaningful things to me and I gave them to the grandkids.
When I see my grandkids, when they come and stay with me, I'll say, "Do you play with this," or, "Have you done a puzzle?", and they'll say, "No, Mom threw it away."
So now I buy two of the item.
How bad is that, right?
One can go home with them so that their mom throws it away and the other one stays in my house.
Interviewer:
Gotcha.
It sounds like your children don't feel really great or don't really like that you collect things.
Have there ever been any conflicts with people close to you because of this?
Interviewee:
No, I don't see them a lot.
It could be because of the hoarding.
That is very possible.
I've had the discussion.
I think my kids understand it, but the spouses definitely don't understand it.
If they were able to, they would come in here and throw everything away.
Their houses are totally immaculate.
One son is a lawyer, lieutenant commander in the Coast Guard.
My daughter is head of the archeology department at Coastal Carolina with her PhD. My other son is a pediatric gastroenterologist and hepatologist.
They are all very accomplished.
They all have extremely great incomes and big houses.
The wives buy things, use them or don't use them and then throw them in the trash.
That about kills me.
The one time I was at my son's house and they were moving, and I said, "Is there anything that I can do to help out," and my daughter in law said, "Yeah, I have those packed for Goodwill.
Do you mind dropping them off at Goodwill?" Well, you know they didn't go to Goodwill.
I took what I could wear and then I gave away the rest of it to other people that could wear them.