Interestingly, Jerry likes gadgets, so he'll order gadgets online that do things like they put an ear piece in and it'll translate a conversation that you're having in another language.
He can never figure out how to get it to work and I can't figure it out, so we have FireSticks that we can't figure out how to get them to work because we're like 74 and just don't have that computer type mind.
We have a lot of gadget type stuff as well.
I would say I also have a lot of VHS tapes.
A lot of them are of my kids, but I figure some day, we might want to watch one of those movies.
I could get rid of those.
If I had a buyer for those, I would probably get rid of those.
They have no memory and we can see what we...
We go to Redbox.
You know what Redbox is?
Interviewer:
I do, yes.
Interviewee:
We have a smart TV that somebody gave us, but we don't know how to set it up.
The person who gave it to us is also 74 and he doesn't know how to set it up either.
We have a DVD player and we go and get Redboxes, not like most of people INAUDIBLE get them on their smart TV.
We have a smart TV that won't even pick up regular channels.
Interviewer:
Going off of...
That gives me an idea of how you determine if an object is valuable or not.
What would you consider trash or what do you discard?
Interviewee:
Definitely cans and bottles that I cannot reuse.
I like plastic stuff.
If something comes...
Like sliced meat comes in little plastic things.
At Christmas we make caramel popcorn with peanut M&Ms in it and we give it to everybody we know.
We probably give out 100 and I can put that in one of those containers or...
Jerry likes to eat Planters peanuts.
They come in great plastic containers that you can have a green lid and you put a red bow on top of it, put the caramel popcorn in there.
I have bins of those kinds of plastic things that other people would definitely throw out, but we wash them and I store them.
At Christmas, I get them out and we wash them again and we fill them with popcorn.
Interviewer:
When you do have something that you ultimately decide to throw away, how do you know when it's time to throw something away?