Participant 27:
Yeah, that's a tough thing because I have so much space to move things that if I... I have a lot of those plastic thingies to put the caramel corn in, so I could throw out half of it and I would probably still have a ton left for the rest of my life to give 100 out a year.
I could move those to the storage, the 1,700 square foot shop and put them in those trash bags and seal them up and get them out when I need them and then wash them.
Then I would have them.
To answer your question, if I have storing something and it gets to the point that it becomes unusable...
For instance, I will throw away rusted tins because I wouldn't give that away as a gift.
Interviewer:
Right.
Participant 27:
I throw away newspapers.
I throw away magazines that we have read.
I tear out the stories that I like.
I throw those away.
I throw away packaging from food.
We have a full trash can and a full recycled can every week of things that we've thrown out.
Interviewer:
Gotcha.
Do you have something in your house that's the most precious thing to you?
Participant 27:
Yeah, I think it's a writing desk that belonged to my great-grandmother.
Interviewer:
Why is it so valuable?
Participant 27:
Because my great-grandmother had it and then my grandmother had it.
Then my mother had it.
Then I have it.
My daughter would say that's the most precious thing to her too because she's going to inherit that.
Interviewer:
So it's been in your family for several generations.
If something were to happen and you were to lose it, what would that...
What would happen if you were to lose it?
How would that feel?
Participant 27:
I think of that because if there were a fire and I lost everything...
Because my pictures are really important to me too.
All around my room, where I'm sitting here, I have photos that are Scotch taped to the wall, to the filing cabinets, to everything all around here.
When people come in here, they can't believe it.
It looks like a mess, but I look up, and I see a nanny kid.
I see my kids when they were little.
I see friends.
I see pets that passed away.
Losing that kind of stuff, the photos and the things that came from my parents.
I don't want to lose them and I'm going to do everything in my power not to lose them.
However, if there were a fire, I think I would be fine because they would be gone.
There would be nothing that I could do about it.
If there's a situation that I cannot personally do anything about and nobody else can do anything about it, then I'd say I'm pretty good at just accepting it and finding another way, but who knows?