Participant 27:
I'm in Pennsylvania on a little farmette. I have a farm with 1,700 square feet of emptiness. It used to be my ex-husband's shop. I had it totally cleaned, power washed... He was a taxidermist... and painted and the floor taken up. That's where the riding toys, the boats, extra furniture, things like that are. Other people are welcome to store things there as well. It's not climate controlled, but it stays pretty cool in the summer and not too bad in the winter. 
Underneath that is a stable with stalls for horses and a tack room. That is empty at this point. I have a four-car garage. I have an RV in one, a car in another, a boat in another and riding equipment, lawnmowers and yard equipment in the other. My house is seven bedrooms. We sleep in one bedroom. I have a very nice guest bedroom. It does have a lot of stuff in it, but it's a huge bedroom, so guests are very comfortable there. I have two upstairs bedrooms that were my kids. Those are my gift bedrooms. One is gifts for my friends, and the other one is gifts for my family. One has one single bed. The other has two twin beds. 
Then I have another bedroom that's like my office, but it does have a double bed in it. It was my daughter's room. I have the files that I'm working on currently spread out all over the floor, but I can pick them up and put them in a laundry basket if I need to. Then I have an enclosed porch, and that's my yard sale room. That's for things that I sell on eBay or a yard sale. Then I have my collector's room. That's where the vintage toys and games that my grandchildren can play with if they want. They like to go shopping in there, see what they want to bring out to play with. 
Then we have... It's like a sitting room. It used to be the dining room. It's where our desks are and our TV. I have a kitchen and then I have a huge great room that has a dining room table. There's nothing on that and it can seat eight. That stays cleared. I have a pool table in there and on there are things that I'm working on, but I can clear that up if I need to. Then the rest of the room is dedicated to toys that the grandchildren just can come in and immediately play with. It's pretty much lined with Fisher-Price playhouses and barns and schools and things like that.