Interviewer:
It sounds like the ... yeah, continue.
Interviewee:
I kind of forgot your question, and I'm on kind of a rampage here, but, oh yeah, why I'm not getting rid of things.
For all those years, I thought, "I'm saving it for those days when I have time to do whatever I want."
And now I have that time, and I'm struggling with not doing what I thought I would do.
I still think that's a head, like I'm evolving into that, but am I totally wrong about that?
I don't know.
In the midst of this, I need to analyze either I clear this stuff out because I'm really not going to be doing all of those things I thought I would, or I get to it and do those things, and in the midst there's distress because I'm not doing either.
You see what I mean?
Interviewer:
Yeah, so is there any ... ?
Because you did mention that there was some effort towards getting rid of items that you haven't been using and that you don't have a use for, and putting them in the box, and potentially giving them away if one spent enough time.
What inspired starting to do that, like starting to make moves towards getting rid of some items?
Interviewee:
That was because my studio was getting out of my control.
It's a limited space and I love that space, so I want to continue loving it, and I wasn't loving it so much anymore, so you know, I started in a corner and just put some things away, and made that goal for myself.
Then I got distracted and stopped doing that, but this has been a good conversation, Interviewer, because I might be able to get back to that and some other things that this has made me think about, so.
Interviewer:
Well, it seems that you're a very creative person, and I love hearing you talk about your items, and it gives me a different view on why you would want to keep these items and why you might want to collect them in the first place.
You mentioned that having more time since you've taken a step back from jobs and not had to be a mother, like as a mom directly caring for small children.
How has quarantine specifically affected, and shelter in place, how has that affected your collecting and discarding?