And I've actually cleared out a lot of those when I left that work, but I still have plenty because I enjoy having options for what I want to do, and I also think I might want to volunteer someday to do projects with kids after this whole COVID thing goes away, so I keep things for just in case.
Really, I have multiple shelving units in the garage, multiple boxes.
Layers upon layers of very interesting, useful things.
Interviewer:
And so you said that you have these boxes, and the items, you might keep them for several years.
How do you decide when it's time to discard an item?
Interviewee8:
Well, when I left a job that I had for 15 years, I very deliberately decided that I needed to discard some of that stuff I'd been hoarding for those 15 years, for projects, and I spent a week on and off going through those particular boxes on those particular shelves, and I donated a whole lot to a local shelter, workshop, thrift store.
But there was a lot I could tell I couldn't get rid of, and I had to look at myself like, "Why not?
Are you really going to use this?
Yeah, I might, I might.
Why not?
It's in a box, it's not in anybody's way.
I have all this space.
I'm going to keep that."
The transition from leaving a job made me get rid of some stuff, but I don't do that very often.
I do go to my clothes a few times a year and get rid of stuff to a thrift store.
That, I don't have a problem with.
But I also, this is sort of going all over the place, but my collection of clothes is always thrift store stuff or yard sale stuff.
I don't spend a lot of money in my hoarding, so I take pleasure going to a thrift store and finding a dollar cool pair of jeans or whatever, and I wear them, but it adds up over time, so I get rid of things that I ended up not wearing.
I might take three bags of clothes a couple times a year to a thrift store.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Well, it seems like you're aware of when certain items become a little overwhelming to have, and that you're not using them, but it seems like most of the items that are project-related and linked back to the creativity side of things, those are the things that seem to be harder to justify discarding or getting rid of.
Is that correct?