Interviewee8:
Yeah. I mean, we've been together for 32 years, and he doesn't understand it, but occasionally he sees cool stuff being made with miscellaneous crap I've collected for 30-plus years, and he's like, "Oh, you do actually use that rusty old tomato metal thing that I couldn't throw away five years ago."
And the whole back of my garage is covered with stuff that, he actually brings home rusty things to me instead of flowers because I'm just so thrilled.
Interviewer:
Aw. Interviewee8:
You know?
He finds them in old people's yards next to their cars, or in an old farm lot, or by the side of the road he'll pick up a rusty part of a muffler and bring it home, and I'm like, "Oh my god, that's so thoughtful."
And then it goes on all of the big shelves in the back of our garage, which two of our neighbors look down on, those poor people.
I bet they think I'm a hoarder, but that doesn't bother me because they're not important to me, and if they came and complained about it I'd feel badly.
But they don't have the right to complain about it.
You see?
Like, this is a problem, but it's not ruining my life.
I do feel bad for my kids, like when I die, the job they have to clear things out is just not fair.
Interviewer:
You've mentioned somewhat wanting to change his behavior, and taking a few steps towards that.
What inspired that and why would you like to change it?
Interviewee8:
Well, it's kind of about wanting to be more efficient or productive.
For years, I had a full time job, and taking care of kids growing up, and had a part time creative job on the side, and all these different ideas of what I wanted to do someday, and now my kids are grown up and independent, I've left a full-time responsible job.
My jewelry business is kind of in the dumps because the gallery's closed for a while, and all of the craft fairs in this area are canceled, and I'm like, "Hey, I have all this time, I can do whatever I want."
And I feel grateful every day, but it's like I have ADHD, which I may well have.
I can't get very much completed.
I continue to have tons of ideas and do all kinds of drawings, but there's some problem about actually following through.
I mean, occasionally I do, and I was way better when I had less time and things I had to do.
You know what I mean?
Like, you have to pay your bills, and you have to take care of your kids, and you have to go to work, and then I had to make money off my jewelry business, so I made jewelry and I was efficient and productive, but the whole creative flow isn't happening now that I have all this time.