Interviewee8:
Yeah, I was going to say the anxiety there was really about somebody else coming into my house to help me, quote-unquote.
I just felt like nobody would understand the process I need to go through and I certainly wouldn't want to do this with some professional, or a friend even.
It's too vulnerable of a situation.
Yeah, I really want to be hidden in my issues.
I don't want to share them with others.
Interviewer:
It seems like you're fairly open about discussing them.
It would be, is it the formal process of having to justify why keeping something that is the bothersome portion of it?
Interviewee8:
Yeah, and yet I don't ... I certainly don't like being judged by people, and I don't like the feeling of being misunderstood, which is being judged, basically.
I don't want to have to explain myself to somebody unless I want to, you know?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Interviewee8:
Having somebody come into my house to tell me how to get rid of things is already them judging me, and then I would have to explain, I guess, why I'm keeping something.
Yeah, it's just too much.
Every little thing, every little thing, has a reason.
Interviewer:
How do your family and your friends feel about the collecting of items in your home space?
Interviewee8:
None of my friends have told me a negative feeling.
It doesn't mean I don't think some of them have a negative judgment, but generally I don't host people at my house, and you know, I like my friends.
I like people, and I go to their homes, or now we meet outside, six feet apart, but I am known by my friends that I don't invite people over to my house, and if we're hanging out in my yard for some reason, which happens now and then, I clean my bathroom like everybody would clean their bathroom, but I'm uncomfortable that they would come in, walk through my entry room to the restroom, and make a judgment of what they see.
Nobody's going to come back out and say, "Interviewee8, why do you have all that stuff on your desk," or, "what is all that?
Oh my god, that's a lot of stuff."
Nobody says negative things to me, but I believe that they would tell you confidentially that Interviewee8 has a problem.
Then I have other friends who say, "Interviewee8, you're an artist.
Give yourself a break.
It's okay."
You know?
"It's not like you're collecting feces."
Right?
Interviewer:
I like that that's the example that keeps coming up.