Interviewee:
Yes, and I have a studio upstairs in my house that is full of both things that I could potentially use to make jewelry out of, but also just cool collectables, but it has gotten to the point where it causes me distress because I would not invite anybody into my studio and a year ago, and before, I would hesitantly allow people in there.
Because, okay, originally, I would make a sail out of my home or whatever, but I always felt self-conscious, but it still was like this does express who I am so I shouldn't self-conscious.
At this point, where it's at, I feel it expresses the worst of who I am and not the best, so it is causing distress.
Interviewer:
Okay, so how do you decide what is valuable and what you should be keeping in those spaces?
Interviewee:
Well, some decisions are easy, because I really might use them or they really are of value to me either aesthetically, like I like to look at them, but some things just add up.
You know, nick-nacky stuff, or just things that don't have sentimental value but are interesting.
I still have trouble getting rid of them.
I do have a box going of things that aren't as valuable to me, but are still things somebody would like, so I put them in this big box in my studio and I rationalize that if I have not looked in there or wanted that thing for, I haven't picked the amount of months, but some length of time, then I can take that whole box, don't look at it, and just take it to the thrift store and get rid of it.
I'll do that, because I'm working on this.
But it's going to take a long time.
Interviewer:
That sounds like ... when did you start doing that, trying that out, where you put items in a box and then if you don't touch the box for a certain amount of time, then taking it to give it away?
Interviewee:
It's probably been just a year but it evolves from something that I've done for a long time, which is trade out items that I've had on display and put them all in a box, and then put up different items that I've been keeping in another box, so that when I notice, if I'm looking around my environment and I realize I haven't actually been looking at these cool things that I set up for myself, if they're invisible to me now, then when I have the feeling like I want to do that, I just take them all off of the mantle, or the desktop, or wherever, the various places, and put them in a box, because they have sentimental value to me.