Participant 28:
Okay, so I'm sitting in my living room, which has four seating areas, two lounge chairs, and two couches, and one couch and two lounge chairs are absolutely free for anybody to sit on, and one couch next to my lounge chair is covered in pens, piles of artists' books, different types of sketch pads, an extra box of glasses and different pens, like reading glasses, and some rocks that I picked up at the beach that I've been drawing on and a magazine over there that's been there way too long but it has some really cool pictures that I think I'll refer to again, and a plugin for my phone, and stuff that doesn't belong on a couch.
But that couch is no longer for people to sit on.
It's a flat space to hold my stuff in reach of when I sit in the living room.
And I have a whole bunch of games and stuff in a corner here, in case we need to play a game, which we never do unless my son and his wife visit, then we do play a game.
Interviewer:
Just in case.
Participant 28:
My dining room table is not doing too bad right now but generally is overly covered with mail I need to go through.
There's piles separated, and the way I separate piles, look at, to do, to file, give to my daughter, and a pile for my husband, of papers.
Mail.
Stuff like that.
Still, to do.
So when we eat at the table, all that stuff is piled on one side, and we eat on the other side of the table.
And then every so often it's totally clear, and I get through those piles.
They are filed.
I do all the bills.
Everything's clear again.
It's like, "Ah.
Good.
Okay."
And then suddenly it's covered again.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm AFFIRMATIVE.
Participant 28:
And then I have an extra table I put up in my dining room, a small four by two foot table because I've been making greeting cards and it's covered with everything I need to make greeting cards, but it certainly makes my kitchen look full, and full of cluttered things.
And then, oh my god, I have a flat space to the left of my stove that, for me, it's not used for kitchen crap, and I've got my supplements there, and more piles of papers, and then there's a whole section of unique items that I've collected.
There's a little cool vase full of feathers.
They're turkey feathers from my yard.
There's seed pods, and, I'm going to walk over there.
You know, interesting rocks, and a little jar that I got in Mexico, and it's got more rocks in it, and little things I've collected from different countries.