Interviewee8:
And my house is not crawling with bugs, or really dirty.
It's not pristine by any measure but I do not like dirty dishes lying around, and I do the dishes.
I don't like things that start smelling or anything.
Yeah, I don't have those issues.
I'm not super tidy and the dishes might take a day to do, but they don't take a week to do, so.
Interviewer:
You have better standards than me.
Do the items that you have, you said it doesn't bother your husband, does it bother any of your other family members?
Interviewee8:
I have an adult daughter who moved back in a year ago and no, it doesn't bother her.
We have to tell her how to not get in our space with her stuff.
She's not supposed to, she has to do her own laundry, for example, and do her own dishes, and sometimes we have to tell her, "You can't put your coffee mug there.
That's dad's space for his grocery list and his," whatever.
"If you're putting your coffee mug down, put it down in your own room, or wash it and put it in your space."
But no, it doesn't bother her.
But she's basically just living upstairs in our house, because she has a job now as a dementia care helper.
She works in a facility, and so we stay pretty separate from her.
Mostly.
She does come down to our kitchen, put her groceries away, and anyway, no. My way does not bother her but she's used to it, and because she's a renter here, she can't really complain.
Interviewer:
It sounds like more so you've identified the collecting of items is causing discomfort to you, not because it upsets your loved ones or impacts your relationships, but more because of the discomfort it causes you of having others come into your home or possibly passing judgment.
Does that seem accurate?
Interviewee8:
Yeah, I mean, the garage expansion to me taking over half of the garage has been an issue.
Not like it was going to break up our marriage, but it has bothered me husband, and so we've negotiated through that.
He's very tolerant.
I think certain things might kind of bug him.
I know certain things bug him, because sometimes he says, "Do you think you're really going to use that whole box of drift wood that's in the garage?" And I'll say, "Well, I've used one piece in the last two months, and I like all the other ones."
And he's like, "Did you remember you have another box of driftwood under that other table?" And I'm like, "Oh yeah, I remember."
He's like, "Okay, whatever."
You know, it's like that.
Interviewer:
It doesn't actively come to a head, it's just probably, it's mentioned from time to time.