And then a box full of glasses, reading glasses.
Yeah.
It's messy but not dirty.
It's cluttered but intriguing, and some people would just see the mess, but I like seeing the miscellaneous interesting things interspersed among the things I need to do.
Is this too much detail?
Interviewer:
No, it's really helpful to hear what your space looks like, and it sounds like for you the items, it's not that the clutter is preventing you from walking around or moving around, or that the clutter is overwhelming.
In fact, using the word clutter almost seems inappropriate in a way, because it seems like these are tools or supplies for you that you keep in select areas and are aware of, and some of them are there for use, and some of them are there, it seems, because they're aesthetically appealing, like you had mentioned earlier on.
Participant 28:
Right.
But the issue comes when the piles stay for too long, and they then inhibit me from starting the next creative project, and so then I need to put everything away, and that means I need a place to store it, so then I'm storing all of this stuff that, yeah, Participant 28 made greeting cards during shelter in place, and they're about to all be put away, and I've given away a lot, and I've mailed a lot, and I've even given some to some businesses I know of and they're selling a few, but I've got probably 100 left and it's time to put them away because I don't feel like making them anymore, so I need to put them away sometime, and it's not like I'm going to throw them away, so they will be added to boxes of the last projects, and the last one before that, and the ones before that, for in case I want to do them again.
And I haven't done some projects for years, and I have boxes of them.
You know what I mean?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Where do you store these boxes?
Participant 28:
Well, I have this wonderful large garage that I'm grateful for almost every day, and when we first built it, it was a two car garage, and then it became a one car garage because my husband has wind surfing equipment, and he has sporting stuff that he saves, and then slowly but surely I have taken over half of the garage is my stuff, and I have a workspace in there because I also make jewelry, and I do welding, and then I used to work in a school based mental health program doing the arts and crafts, so I have boxes of options for running craft projects, like therapeutic craft projects, with kids.