Interviewer:
Yeah. That is what I mean.
Is there any like big event or anything you ever wanted as far as work, that you weren't able to get because of either losing something within the mess, or not able to invite people over?
Interviewee:
No.
No. I've never had to miss, but having people come in.
That would be the only thing I can think of.
And kind of like I said, like how I wanted to get over what I'm doing with now like, "Okay, I can't let this continue."
So fortunately the depression seized and I got help, and I got medication, and I was able to deal with things.
So I had a mother who was very depressed, and it gave me a model of what I didn't want to have my life be like.
Interviewer:
Has-
Interviewee:
She just went potty.
Now I got to pick her up and get back in the house.
Sorry, go ahead.
Interviewer:
No, you are all good.
So now I want to ask you a few questions about value of the items that you have.
When you think about what you keep.
What makes those items valuable?
And how do you determine if it is valuable or not?
Interviewee:
It's mainly the person who gave me the item, or who's item it was that I inherited.
I'm going to close the garage door now.
... Okay, that's the main thing.
I do have some items from my grandmother, so they're like 100 years old, and they have some monetary value.
But, I just donated a couple of those things to a church auction last year.
So it's not based on the monetary value, really.
But there are some things that I don't want to put in a thrift store box because it just has too much monetary value.
Most of the stuff though, I really don't want to let go of, is the actual truth.
But like when I donated the things to the church auction, they were like, "Are you sure you want to donate this?" I'm like, "Yes."
It was something that even though I had the memory, and I knew who it was from.
I didn't have a place to put it, I didn't really like it that much.
Stuff like that, I thought, "Okay, you need to start to let these things go."
But keep in mind, I've probably had them for 40 years.
So I'm trying to use a slow process to let the things go.
That's definitely not based on their monetary value.
It can be a small thing, and I just love it because I remember the friend who gave it to me.
Interviewer:
Do you have a most precious item in your home?
Interviewee:
One?
Interviewer:
Yeah.