Participant 29:
I sometimes did before quarantine, because I do live alone.
And some of my friends are couples.
And I would get together with them, but nonetheless, sometimes I would have that feeling of loneliness.
Or, when I'm home and you just need another pair of hands, that sort of thing.
And my friends, who are married, amazingly this group of friends in this area, their husbands are all super handy men, and they don't have to do anything.
So I get those feelings when I feel like, "Ugh, I have to do it all, and I have to figure out how to do it."
But, I always would counter it by making plans with friends, and having friends over.
So now, I can't do that.
Like I haven't had anyone come in the house.
So that's been really hard.
I haven't had a meal with anyone in four months.
Interviewer:
Yeah, that's a long time.
Participant 29:
I don't know if you have to deal with that.
But, it's self-imposed, some of my friends do get together and have dinner, but it's not social distancing, and I'm not going to do it.
So I do miss it tremendously, I miss going to a restaurant for a meal, instead of my own cooking all the time.
So, that part is really hard on me.
But that's why I do the other things that I do, to try to counter balance.
But without Sophie, my little dog.
I just can't imagine.
Interviewer:
I'm really glad that you have her.
Yeah, it sounds like she's a big source of joy.
Participant 29:
She's so sweet.
Everyone loves her.
Everybody loves her.
But it's really hard not to have anybody to hug.
I would hug my girlfriends and their husbands, and the children.
I have children in the neighborhood I'm really close to and they would come over and we would do art together or play games.
And none of that is going on.
So I miss that a lot.
Interviewer:
Sometimes physical contact and the physical presence of others, it's like you can only do so much with a phone call for FaceTime.
So it's understandable, and it's hard right now.
Participant 29:
Exactly.
Yes.
Interviewer:
I'm glad to hear though, that you're keeping up with exercise and that you seem to be doing well, even though there definitely are the struggles that you recognize during this time period.
Participant 29:
Yeah, I think I'm doing okay.
That's what I say.
I'm doing okay, I'm managing, and I'm going to continue to manage.
And, the other thing that I do ...
Actually.
There's two things.
One is gratitude, when I'm feeling really down.
I just turn to gratitude, and remind myself of all the things I have to be grateful for.
And I think that really does lift my spirits.