Participant 29:
So it's not like, not important like on the hoarding shows, but important to me because I like this room to be the same, and I'd like to have this nice space for my computer and my files.
I do have a filing cabinet, and then it's a large room.
I'd like the other side of the room to look more like an art studio, so that I would feel happier about coming out here and painting.
Interviewer:
Have you ever sought to change the behavior of collecting these items?
Participant 29:
I haven't collected anything in years and years.
When people have asked, I have friends, one collects strawberries, little things.
And one collects mushrooms, and somebody collects something else.
I've never collected anything and when people ask me, because they want to give you a gift, I tell everyone I don't want any gifts, I rarely shop.
I don't by things, it's just that I have all this stuff already.
The only things I have bought are some organizing things.
I have plenty of clothes for the kind of life that I have.
So I don't collect anything, it's getting rid of the stuff that I've got that's the problem.
The only thing really that I do buy is art supplies, I guess.
Art supplies, food, makeup, but I don't have a hoard of makeup either.
So what I have, I don't want to let go of.
So when I was cleaning out one of the drawers, I did get rid of some older makeup, I thought, "Okay, they say you're not supposed to have this for a long time.
So just get rid of this."
So I avoid shopping, like when friends ask me to go shopping, I don't go.
I don't really want to buy stuff.
I only do it if I feel like going along for the fun of it.
Interviewer:
So you mentioned that the accumulation of items is the problem.
Have you ever seen a professional for help with that?
Participant 29:
Well I have the therapist that I mentioned earlier, and it has come up and he gave me that thing that's what reminded me that anxiety was an issue.
He gave me the thing about ...
Because I was saying, "Why aren't I dealing with this?
How can I get motivated?" I've asked those kinds of questions, so yes, as part of my therapy, I have absolutely told him that, about this room and about how I put off paperwork.