Interviewer:
Okay. And have you felt anymore attached, or it's harder to get rid of items during this period of being in your home more?
Or going through these item
Interviewee:
It's gotten a little bit better, because I mentioned before, I have like five boxes in the garage that are going to go to charity, whenever that's possible.
So I just try to keep, I think, I don't really need this anymore.
Something that I'm trying out is using it one more time, or if it's a household item, and thinking, "Does this really matter?
Could I have used this other thing instead of this thing?" And then I'm like, "Yeah, you can put that in the charity box."
The same thing with clothes, I've put something on, I think, let me wear this today and see how it feels.
And then I think, if this didn't feel every good, I put it in the laundry, and then I put it in the charity pile.
The clothes are in a spare bedroom in a pile that I'm piling those up.
I didn't want to put those in the garage.
So that's how I'm doing it, and I would say it is a little easier.
I don't know if it's because I'm spending so much time with my things.
I am trying to identify that they're not as important as have had ...
They don't have the importance I had attached to them, is what I'm trying to make myself think.
Interviewer:
Okay.
When did you start trying that, "I'll use it one more time."
Or, "I'll wear it one more time, and see if it's something that I really need."
Approach?
Interviewee:
Since March 12th, when I started to quarantine, and I was just here.
Interviewer:
What made you take that approach?
Like what gave you the idea to do that, in the first place?
Interviewee:
Well, I'm by myself most of the time.
I mean I do go outside.
I take a walk every morning, and I do walk my dog.
I take her out.
So I am outside, but I'm not doing anything social, and I think it started with the clothes probably.
And because I read a lot of stuff, and I think, "Does this look really good?
Does it make me feel good?
Is this too old?
Does it have too many pills?" I think, "I'll wear it today and see."
I think that's how it started.
And then I thought, "I can do that with some of my kitchen items too."
Like I used a pot for something to cook something, and I thought, "I have this other pot, I could also have cooked this in.
I don't really need this."
So I put that in.
That's how it started.
The one more use of nothing.
Interviewer:
I like it.
It's an approach.
Interviewee:
Yeah, I never read that anywhere.
That's my own.
Interviewer:
You should trademark that.
Do something.
Interviewee:
Thank you.
Well you can feel free to use it if it comes up anywhere you have the opportunity.