So that's the kitchen.
That's the only other room that I would say has any kind of mess to it.
But, my clothes are hung up in the closet, I have hooks on the back of my door for my nightgown and robe, that sort of thing.
So those parts of my life are orderly.
My bed doesn't have anything else on it, except what belongs on it.
Occasionally it'll get a couple of hangers on it, and then I'll notice them and I'll be like, "I don't want those hangers on there."
I put them where they belong.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So it is the office and the garage are the two places that you feel are the cluttered portions?
Participant 29:
Yes.
Totally.
Yes, just those two places.
Interviewer:
And you said it's important to you still to be able to walk around these areas, so there's still enough space to move around in them?
Participant 29:
Yes.
I can walk from the door to my chair without any kind of tripping.
I kind of make sure because I'll be turning 73 in two weeks.
And I don't want to be falling and breaking my hip or anything like that.
And I have a little dog too.
I have a little dog, so she's sitting here on the floor on her pillow right next to me.
I didn't describe her.
Sophie, were you feeling left out?
... Interviewer:
So how severe would you say that your hoarding behavior is now for you and is it a problem?
Participant 29:
I still consider it a problem, because everything is not in order.
I don't want anyone coming into this room.
I don't want anyone seeing it.
I'll tell people, but I really don't want anyone to experience it.
I mean, I don't go around announcing it, but like I said earlier in the conversation, if it comes up because of something in conversation, I will talk about it.
But I really don't want to bring anybody in here.
No one has ever been in here.
I've lived here 20 years.
Of course, it took me a while to make it this messy.
So for me, it's not serious like the ones I see on TV, I wouldn't be worth filming for the hoarding show, because of the rest of my house.
But for me, I still can't find all my papers when I want to.
Still have more stuff than I need to have and it's painful for me to part with the sentimental things.
And I have some useless things, that's why I think I am a mini-hoarder, because some of it is unimportant, but I seem to want to keep it anyway.
Stupid little stuff, you know.
Interviewer:
We all have our reasons.
Participant 29:
Pardon me?
Interviewer:
We all have our reasons for keeping things.