Participant 30:
INAUDIBLE ... at least one person who I think probably has a serious problem.
I've known her for probably about five or six years, and I just recently realized that she's an older person and he would talk about how financially strapped she was, but she lives alone in a pretty large house, and I remember one time I said...
She was talking about she was on the verge of losing her house, and I said, "Why don't you get a roommate?" And she's like, "Oh no. That's just out of the question."
I always thought that was really odd, and then three or four months ago she, INAUDIBLE with the pandemic, I think it kind of made things worse, and I had heard from somebody that she is just staying in her house and she's not like INAUDIBLE but more like just mentally can't deal with things and can't get up out of bed, and couldn't go grocery shopping so one of our mutual friends took some food up to her.
He said she wouldn't come to the door.
She said, "This is the combination to my garage door.
Just open it and leave it in the garage."
So that's what he did and left, and he didn't even see her, and that's kind of made me think, now I'm kind of adding things together.
I think and things that she said, I'm kind of thinking that she probably does have a hoarding problem.
Interviewer:
Right.
So definitely she has like, you've observed some reclusive tendencies, and also a little bit of being secretive, that sort of thing might be a tell in that case?
Participant 30:
Yeah.
Interviewer:
Okay.
I know you mentioned that you had seen some extreme causes of hoarding disorder, like on TV and stuff, but where else have you gotten any information about hoarding disorder?
Where have you heard of it?
Participant 30:
Well I remember, I think one of the first times I really heard of it was somebody telling me about somebody that he knew, and this was not somebody I knew, that he said, and he was married, so I don't know if it was her or the husband, but he said, that to go to their house was there was just a little, they had newspapers and things stacked all up in their living room, and there was just a little path to go through, and that was the first time I had ever heard of that, and I thought that's really odd to have, to not be able to walk, to have just a little narrow trail through your house.