Interviewer:
Okay. All right.
This next one says, John Doe has magazines that he keeps in case he needs to use them in the future.
Magazines occupy most of his rooms, except for the kitchen and his bedroom.
Before taking a shower, he must remove some of these magazines from his bathtub.
Sometimes it's difficult for Mr. Doe to find his car keys and wallet, so he'll spend 10 to 20 minutes looking for them, until eventually he finds them.
When this happens, he's usually late in getting to where he needs to be.
What do you think on the spectrum?
Is this more like clutter problems or a full blown hoarding disorder?
Participant 30:
Magazines are in the bathtub, I think that goes a little beyond clutter, and if he's always, if he's almost always late because he can't find things.
Also being... I think it is a little beyond clutter, and it's kind of going over into the hoarding category.
I think also if somebody, if this happens chronically that it takes you 20 minutes to find things, and you're always late, I think if he's not able to come up with a system, where at least the vitally important things are always in the same place, but that shows that there's a little bit more of a problem also.
Interviewer:
Do you think he should seek treatment from a psychiatrist?
Participant 30:
Probably.
I mean because magazines in the bathtub is kind of really what, I think when the clutter moves from where it could sort of normally be expected into other places, where it interferes with your ability to function.
I think that that could mean there's underlying issues that would benefit from some professional help.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Do you think that this is similar to your behavior in any way or mostly different?
Participant 30:
Yes, it's different.
I don't usually have a hard time finding things like keys.
I tend to keep things like that in the same place, and I tend to use rooms for what they're intended.
I don't use my bathroom for storage.
I think that's a little different than my situation.
Interviewer:
Okay.
This last one is John Doe has several antiques that he keeps because he likes them, and he knows that they are valuable.
He goes out once a week and buys more antiques.
He's worried he might get rid of an antique item that's worth a lot of money, and antiques occupy every room.
Before entering his bathroom, he must remove several antique items.
Often it's difficult for him to find his car keys and wallet so he'll spend 30 minutes to an hour looking for them until eventually he finds them or forgets what he was looking for.
He is almost always late in getting to where he needs to be, and sometimes does not show up at all.
Where do you think he fits on this spectrum?