Interviewee32:
Oh, my objects.
Yeah, no, I get it.
Yeah, I just didn't catch the word.
Well, yeah.
Some of them I wouldn't feel like it's home without and that's... I have quite a few old books that belonged to grandparents and great grandparents, people that I love and I didn't even know, I never knew.
But those are really important to me.
I will probably never read most of these books if any of them.
But having those old books does give me a sense of connection and a sense of having family in my home with me.
So yeah, that kind of stuff it's hard to really imagine not having.
But as far as so much of the clutter that I have...
Hmm.
No, this is where...
It just puzzles me that I can't just break through this.
So much of it is just unimportant stuff and it's just stuff that...
Everyday stuff that a person buys when they need an object for whatever reason but why can't I just use it and be done with it?
I don't know.
I mean I don't need to hold onto it.
It's that thing of not wanting to waste anything I guess.
Interviewer:
Right, and that not wanting to waste anything...
So, I know that you've mentioned you could potentially attribute that to your brain damage.
But is there any family history with hoarding or problems with clutter that you know of?
Interviewee32:
Oh, yes.
Yes, there definitely is that.
I remember my parents saying that my great aunt Eady was a...
Well, I don't remember if they used the word hoarder but they would say that she cannot get rid of anything.
She just hangs onto everything that she ever gets.
So, she was very cluttered, supposedly.
So, at least my great aunt had somewhat of a problem.
I don't remember my parents being particularly that way.
So yeah, really that's all I can think of.
It's just what I was told because I honestly don't remember.
I mean I was too young when she died to really understand that whole concept and to notice whether she had way too much stuff.
And when I visited her house I don't remember having trouble walking through the house.
I don't think she had stuff covering all the floors or anything like that, so anyway.
Yeah, but that's more of a family story than my own actual remembered experience.
Interviewer:
Gotcha.
And are there parts of your home that you don't use in the way they were intended?
For example, some people have so much stuff that they put it in their bathtub so they're unable to use their bathtub.
Or they have to put it on their stove, so they can't cook.
Does any of this sound relatable to you?