Interviewer:
Okay. So, last one of these little story things.
So, John Doe has several antiques that he keeps because he likes them and knows they are valuable.
He goes out once a week and buys more antiques.
He is worried that he might get rid of an antique item that is worth a lot of money.
Antiques occupy every room.
Before entering his bathroom, he must remove several antique items.
Often it is difficult for Mr. Doe to find his car keys and wallet so he will spend 30 minutes to an hour looking for them until he eventually finds them or forgets what he was looking for.
He is almost always late in getting to where he needs to be and sometimes does not show up at all.
So, is Mr. Doe a hoarder?
Participant 32:
That's hoarding.
Interviewer:
Okay.
And do you think he should try to change his behavior and why or why not?
Participant 32:
Oh man, yeah.
Definitely change his behavior because again it's a dangerous situation it seems to me if you can't walk through your house and can't get to your bathroom.
And yeah, I mean, gosh, it's probably a fire hazard and all kinds of things to have that much furniture.
I'm assuming...
When I think of antiques, I figure they're going to be made of wood probably but that's not necessarily true.
They can be made of metal or other things but anyway.
So yeah, and to not be able to find what you need in a timely fashion is also...
It can be dangerous and it's certainly inconsiderate when it comes to not getting to appointments or commitments on time or at all.
Interviewer:
Definitely, mm-hmm AFFIRMATIVE.
So, do you think that he needs treatment from a psychiatrist?
Participant 32:
Yes.
Interviewer:
Okay, and did you find any similarities or differences to your own behavior?
Participant 32:
That one was pretty different, it felt pretty different to me.
Interviewer:
So, he does antiques, which have a lot of value to him.
Did you find any similarities as to like the value you place on the old books from your family heirlooms?
Did you find any similarities there or not really?