Participant 32:
Well, perfect timing because I've just moved and I do have lots and lots of boxes and I've had the tendency to save the boxes thinking, "Oh, you know..."
Well, actually I saved them thinking I'm going to need them for when I go through everything and separate give away, donate, recycle, throw away, and keep.
So, I'll need boxes for that.
So, for quite a while I did have many, many boxes in a couple of the rooms and garage of my place.
But then I talked myself out of that because there are places in the nearby town, there are stores that lease out loads and loads of boxes, and not flattened boxes, for anybody to take any time.
And so, I thought, "Oh, I don't need to save boxes anymore."
So, I'm really good now.
This is just a recent thing.
I'm really good now about flattening the boxes and taking the wrap thing, the paper that was used inside the boxes to keep things from rattling around or whatever, and taking them to the recycle center.
Yay.
Interviewer:
That's great.
Participant 32:
Yeah.
Interviewer:
So, now we'll move onto the next little story that I have for you.
So, John Doe has several boxes that he keeps in case he needs to store something or decides to move.
When items are delivered to his house he keeps the container the item came in.
He is worried that he might get rid of a box that he will need later.
Stacks of boxes occupy every room.
Before entering his bathroom he must remove several stacks of boxes.
His house is extremely cluttered and it is difficult for him to walk in his house.
Often it is difficult for Mr. Doe to find his car keys and wallet so he will spend 30 minutes to an hour looking for them until he eventually finds them or forgets what he was looking for.
He is always late in getting to where he needs to be and sometimes does not show up at all.
So, do you think that this exhibits more a hoarding disorder or more clutter problems?
Participant 32:
That's hoarding.
Interviewer:
Okay, and why do you think it's hoarding?
Participant 32:
Well, because he cannot... I mean, oh my god, if I couldn't get to my bathroom quickly and easily, I'd be in big trouble.
So, I'm at the stage of life where I...
Sorry, this is recorded but I don't care.
Interviewer:
You're okay.
Participant 32:
I have to pee pretty often and it's like oh my gosh, it's urgent.
I've got to go when I've got to go.
So, no, that would not work.
Not being able to access rooms and be able to walk through one's house easily, no, no, no. That's dangerous and yeah, that's really not good.
And not being able to find important things.
You need a whole hour to find them, uh-uh.
No way.