Interviewer:
Yeah, so it sounds like you have really no issue parting with your objects as long as you know that it will serve a greater use to someone else and that they'll get as much value out of the object as you will.
Interviewee32:
Yeah, pretty much.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm , okay.
And so, my next question is, do you think that your problems with clutter get in the way of your daily life?
Interviewee32:
Yes.
Interviewer:
In what way?
Interviewee32:
Oh, I have to tell you more.
Okay, yes.
Yeah, anytime I do want to have a meal I have to fix it up... I have trays is what I do.
I put my plate on a tray and I'll sit down usually either in the living room or I'll come outside now that it's nice weather in the summertime, outside on my deck, and sit on a chair on the deck and eat my meal that way because my table, my dining room table, is not usable for dining.
What else?
There are so many things that I don't know the location of.
Partly that's due...
Muchly, that's due to the fact that I just moved and when I packed up to move I consciously chose not to mark every box what's in it and where it needs to go and all that.
So, that was a mistake but oh well.
So, there's just so much that I don't know where to find and so that impacts me daily.
What else?
I tend to be kind of a hermit.
Well, not hermit but I'm an introvert and I do tend to isolate a bit but I do have quite a few friends and enjoy getting together with them.
But mostly, I enjoy getting together with them somewhere else besides my place because I'm somewhat embarrassed about the way my house looks.
And so, I have folks who haven't even seen where I moved even though I've been here for over two months now.
I mean local friends who haven't seen because I keep saying, "Well, give me another couple of weeks.
I've got more things to put away and figure out where I'm going to..."
Dada dada, whatever.
And so yeah, it impacts my social life as well.
Interviewer:
Okay, so you've mentioned when you're eating your daily meals, the clutter gets in the way of that.
Finding things in a timely manner, knowing where everything is, is affected by that as well.
And your socialization is also impacted because you may feel embarrassed about your living space and the clutter.
Does that sound about right?
Interviewee32:
Yeah, that's exactly right.
Yeah.
Interviewer:
Okay.
And what do you think are the most important differences between what is considered normal saving behavior such as collecting and hoarding disorder?