And so, yeah.
So, a lot of... I think that's probably a lot of what my clutter is.
But I don't need all that and now I'm in this position again just by moving and have just moved and haven't put a lot of things into the desk in the room that's supposed to be the office room instead of my dining room table but who knows if it ever will be.
But yeah, it's my opportunity to pare down and make a decision.
I don't need all those pens and pencils, just pick out a few and give the rest away.
So, that's a long and convoluted answer I think.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Okay, so it sounds like you're kind of having a combination of both nostalgia and sentimentality clashing with your more utilitarian clutter.
But if it came down to it, which do you think you would prioritize more?
Interviewee32:
The sentimentality stuff I would prioritize for sure.
Interviewer:
Okay, gotcha.
And you actually started talking about this before, you said you have no problem getting rid of things that belong in the landfill.
So, what is trash for you?
What do you discard?
Interviewee32:
Well, I discard... I don't discard a lot.
In fact, where I live I'm not required to have trash picked up every week.
I have a system where I call it.
So, when I get my garbage cans filled up, I can them and the next time that they come through the neighborhood they'll pick mine up.
And that's because I just... I recycle really fanatically and reuse and of course, keep things that probably I shouldn't.
I mean did I need them all along?
But when an object is broken beyond repair and the material it's made of are not recyclable or reusable, I will throw it away and it goes to the landfill.
Interviewer:
Okay, so just when it loses its utility you know it's time for it to go.
Interviewee32:
Yes, when I figure that neither I nor anybody else in the world could use it.
So, I don't get my trash picked up very often.
Interviewer:
Okay, and I know you mentioned that the most precious item in your house for you is those old books from family members, some you haven't even met, and it's valuable to you because of the sentimentality and the attachment.
So, what would happen if you lost those?
Interviewee32:
Oh, boy.
I don't know.
I would go with the flow.
I mean what can I say?
Let's say a fire comes through...
We have wildfires around here a lot and they're burning right now.
In fact, my view... I have a great view of the Cascade Mountains that I can't see because of all the smoke from wildfires that are happening right now.
Interviewer:
That's crazy, mm-hmm .