Interviewee32:
Yeah. So yeah, let's just say, what if a wildfire came through and burned my...
Well, burned my house down or burned up my books, I'd be...
It would break my hurt, it would really hurt but it would be okay and I think in the big picture of things, in some way, it would almost be a relief.
I could lighten my load.
I'm always wanting to lighten the load and that would be one way that would.
And in fact, you know what?
Is it okay for me to go on with ideas that come to me as we're speaking?
Interviewer:
Yeah, of course.
Interviewee32:
I mean I think that's what you wanted to hear anyway.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Interviewee32:
When I was putting some of the old family books into a bookshelf that I have just a couple of weeks ago, I took the time to open them up and look at the inside pages because some of them or a lot of them have written in them who it was given to when.
Like this is from daddy and mummy, Christmas of 1910 or 1881 or something like that.
I mean all books...
Some of these are really old and I found one that was given to my uncle and I do have a cousin who is the daughter of the only uncle I had.
And so, I packaged up that book and mailed it to her.
Even though it's part of a collection, the rest of the collection did not have his name in it.
It had other people's names and all that.
So, anyway, I got a text back from that cousin just today saying, oh, she was so happy to get it and her daughter is really looking forward to it to belong to her and that...
The cousin said that she just really did not get very much of the family objects, our family possessions.
And so it's...
Interviewer:
Like heirlooms?
Interviewee32:
Yeah, heirlooms, that kind of thing.
And so, I just started thinking this morning, "You know what?
I'm going to talk to my sisters about this."
Because I have a lot, if not most of all the old family books and stuff.
Now mind you, a lot of them or some of them are from my mother's side, not my father and this cousin is from my father's side.
And my mother was an only child so there's no cousins or anything from her family.
My thought is I want to talk to my sisters about it and ask them if they'd be willing to let us divide up these old books and give some percentage or some amount of them to this cousin, who I think felt neglected or deprived or whatever.
So there, so that's something that I'm actually thinking about because...
About the objects that are of the most value to me.