Interviewer:
Okay. Then I'll probably ask you some follow-up questions about each little vignette as well.
The first one is that John Doe has several boxes that he keeps in case he needs to store something or decides to move.
When items are delivered to his house, he keeps the container the item came in.
He's worried that he might get rid of a box that he will need later.
Stacks of boxes occupy one of his closets, but there are no closets in other rooms.
His house is not always organized, but is usually not cluttered.
Occasionally it is difficult for Mr. Doe to find his car keys and wallet, so he will spend a few minutes looking for them until he eventually finds them.
When this happens, he is rarely late in getting to where he needs to be.
Participant 33:
So the options are if I think he has hoarder problems or hoarding disorder or is fine or is normal?
CROSSTALK.
Interviewer:
Yeah, basically hoarding disorder, clutter problems.
I guess we can use normal or none of the above or something completely different if you feel like he has something completely different.
Participant 33:
Honestly, I consider that perfectly normal.
Interviewer:
Perfectly normal?
Participant 33:
Yeah.
Interviewer:
Would you say that his behavior is similar or different to your clutter problems?
Participant 33:
I would say it's different because he actually sounds very organized.
I think any normal person might [INAUDIBLE] some items occasionally.
I can understand keeping...
You only said several boxes.
I can understand the keeping of several boxes.
That sounds like he actually uses the boxes that he keeps.
I can understand keeping the package that something came in.
I happen to work for... I work in radiation oncology, so we're associated with physics.
Physics have dozens of little tools that have to be sent out for calibration every once in a while.
It's particularly important that you keep all the boxes for each little tool so it can be [INAUDIBLE] appropriately placed thing and sent back.
Actually, my dad, who is not a hoarder at all and not cluttered at all, he even kept the boxes that things came in in case he wanted to send them back, which he did frequently because he was often dissatisfied with something in one way or another.
He would take full advantage of being able to return it.
He would make sure that he opened it very carefully, so that the box would be returnable and he made sure that he would keep the box in a safe place so that he could repackage the thing up and put it back when he decided he didn't want it.
That's why I kind of feel like that guy is actually not really having a problem with... I mean maybe he does, but from what I hear, I think that's actually pretty normal stuff.