Interviewer:
Okay, it sounds like a lot of these things are in the basement or maybe on a shelf.
Okay.
Talking about... I know you mentioned earlier that your husband has basically said that you can't keep everything.
Participant 33:
Yeah.
Interviewer:
Generally, how do your family and friends feel about your clutter problems?
Participant 33:
I think what it comes down to is my husband.
I have two small kids.
I don't think they know any different because they've just lived among it so much.
We try to get things cleaned up and I try to express the importance to them of organization, but it's very hard to impress them upon them when...
And the other thing is we live in a small house, so my two kids share a room.
It's hard to find spaces for everything that normal people have spaces for, so it winds up just being cluttered more closely together.
I mean it essentially comes down to my husband.
Now, another thing, as I mentioned, I've taken a lot of these surveys, and they often ask, "Are you hesitant to invite people over because of your clutter?"
I have to say, yes, I am, because for starters, we do have this very small house, so you can't really host a party or anything in there, but I have to say that when I have clutter in the living room, then I don't really want to invite people over to witness that squalor that I live in.
My friends don't really know or comment, I guess, on my clutter.
It's just my husband who's consistently saying, "Let's try to get things cleared out.
We don't need all this stuff.
The chances that we're going to use it is small.
We should just get rid of it."
Interviewer:
Okay, so mainly just your husband because, like you said, you don't usually have too many people over partly because it's a small house, but also at times because of clutter, especially if it's in the living room.
Participant 33:
Yes.
Interviewer:
That makes sense.
How severe overall would you say your clutter problems are now?
Participant 33:
On a scale of one to 10 or...
Interviewer:
I don't have any specific number.
If it's easier to do a one to 10 scale, with 10 being very severe and 0 being...