I think that there's a lot I could do without feeling bad about it, but I just got started, then I could get it done, but when it came down to, I don't know, maybe half of this stuff, then I would start feeling bad about getting rid of it, but I might not need to get rid of half the stuff.
Maybe if I can just get rid of what doesn't pain me to get rid of, then we'll have the space needed and we can just move the boxes to...
The basement's divided into two areas, so if I can cut them in half and divide half around the corner, then I might not even have to get rid of anything that's really important to me, and we can still get that remodeled.
It's just a question of really doing it.
I don't know if that answered your question.
Interviewer:
No, no, no, that does.
It sounds like for you it seems like there might be a little bit of distress, but that a lot of it's really just not having enough time, which makes sense for someone that is a parent that has two kids and also is taking care of their mother and then also has a full-time job.
That's a lot of things going on, so that makes sense.
It sounds like some of these items, like you said...
Some of the things that you realize may be useful, but are...
Either you don't have enough space or some of these objects that are not as intrinsically valuable or monetarily valuable.
It sounds like getting rid of those things is not as difficult, but if you had to get rid of something that someone else had gifted you, how difficult or how upset would you be if you had to do that?
Participant 33:
Depends on the person and the gift.
It's interesting because one problem that we have are wedding gifts.
For some reason, I don't really have much attachment to these wedding gifts, but I'm terribly afraid of offending the people that have given them to me.
That makes me unlikely to do anything with them, but the things that I have the most attachment to are probably the more historic things, the heirlooms that have been in our family for a while.
Those would be pretty painful to get rid of.
Interviewer:
The ones that have either the memories attached to them or the historical value or the...
Participant 33:
Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer:
Those would be difficult.
The next several questions are kind of distinguishing hoarding disorder from things that are not hoarding disorder.
What would you say are the most important differences between what is considered normal saving behavior, such as collecting, and hoarding disorder?