Interviewer:
The first several questions will be...
All the questions will be about your difficulties with clutter and difficulties discarding.
Do you have a preferred term for that?
Participant 33:
No, not really.
Clutter's fine.
Interviewer:
All right.
Now, we'll go into some other types of questions that aren't necessarily about listing.
They're just an open kind of question.
Some of them will be a little bit more personal and some not so much.
The first one is just about your clutter problems.
Can you describe them for me and how long they've been going on?
Participant 33:
Let's see.
I've always had something of this mentality for as long as I can remember.
Even as a kid, I remember finding rocks and just wanting to collect and accumulate them.
Then that rock would become associated with a place or a memory and so I couldn't throw it out.
I think that these have been happening forever.
If anything, maybe I've gotten a little bit better because I've recognized it as a ridiculous aspect of myself.
Of course, my husband says that I can't possibly keep everything that I want to keep.
So I think it's probably gotten better more recently, but yeah, it's always been there.
Interviewer:
What kinds of things do you keep?
Participant 33:
I'd say that there's two sections of items that I keep.
One is the stuff that I have inherited or been gifted by other people in my life.
Usually that is stuff that is important to me, things like artwork from relatives or, I don't know, decorated plates.
Usually, they're kind of these decorated things that are beautiful and they remind me of a person and so I keep them, but I have no place to put them.
So I put them in the basement with the stuff carefully packaged away.
Then the second kind of thing I keep is the stuff that may have a use, so I have... but it's really valueless.
The stuff that people give me usually has a value, but the stuff that I keep that...
It usually is something I can imagine a project with it.
I work with Girl Scouts and of course they're very big into using resources wisely, so sometimes I look at something that I'm about to throw away and I think, "Oh, but I could use this for X." Then I wind up getting a big disorganized stack of it usually in my basement because that's the least frequented place in my house.
Usually, it's one of those... defaulted to those two categories.
I've a very hard time getting rid of books.
That's one thing that I have a hard time getting rid of all that, but at least those stay on a shelf and they're not too intrusive I guess.