Interviewee33:
I have to say that we're really fortunate in that I guess that as bad as it is for most other people, I've been able to keep my job and I've been able to stay relatively safe.
My husband has been able to work from home, and so he's able to watch the kids more or less during the day.
I mean of course it's hard, but I just feel like I can't complain because there's been people who have been in such worse condition.
It's hard to have the kids home inside all day.
It's hard for them to not see very many friends regularly.
It's hard for my husband to get work done well while the kids are trying to entertain themselves.
We feel like we didn't get a lot of out the school year last year, and we're wondering how this next year is going to go.
We're not really sure how we can... how flexible our schedules can be to adapt to what the school is going to be doing.
There's always going to be that impact.
For a while, my parents were... I have to say my dad.
My mom was not aware, but my dad was worried enough for both of them.
Now, it seems like they have sort of adapted to it.
I wasn't seeing them for March or April.
I guess I didn't see them until June.
I sort of took three months off from visiting them because I was worried, still going into work and stuff.
I wasn't sure if I would expose them to something.
As we've kind of decided now that it's better off for me to be available to them than to shut myself off from them, no matter what the situation is with COVID, I've started spending more time with them again down there.
I go down about once a weekend.
I mean that is about it for us.
Again, it's nothing like losing jobs or not knowing what to do with your children while you work because daycare is closed.
Fortunately, we have this thing covered.
Interviewer:
I'm happy to hear that both you and your husband were able to keep your job.
That's certainly a nice thing to have.
Thinking now kind of towards clutter problems, has COVID impacted anything with either acquiring things or difficulty with discarding?
Interviewee33:
No, I don't believe it has.
I don't think it's done either of those.
Interviewer:
Okay, and hasn't really affected any sense of connectedness or attachment to items or your attempts to declutter?