Participant 33:
No, I haven't.
In fact, I haven't really...
The only reason why I thought of it was because the study came up on my list of Alzheimer's studies to participate in.
I think the original study was relating hoarding disorder to Alzheimer's, but I thought I don't really know which side I fall in.
I don't know if I really am a hoarder or not, but I'll see if they want to have me as a participant.
I apparently fulfilled their requirements, so it sort of spilled over into this.
It's something I didn't really think about before these studies came out.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Have you ever heard of it in another context by any chance?
I know some people have seen the TV shows.
Participant 33:
I have not seen the TV show, but I have heard about it.
I do remember...
Actually, this was long before the TV show even occurred.
I remember there was a news episode about...
It's so long ago.
I don't remember the specifics of it, but they were finding elderly people in the city that had nobody to take care of them.
It was funny because the amount of...
The one thing they had in common was the amount of stuff in their household.
In fact, I remember this shot that they took of one women with all of her dolls.
She had all of them... I don't know.
20, 30 dolls lined up in a bed.
She clearly was not very well with it.
That had an impact on me, not just the neglect of these people, but also the amount of stuff that they had in their household.
I think they mentioned the hoarding disorder at that point, but that's about all I can recall.
It doesn't seem like there's a lot of emphasis on it.
Interviewer:
The next several things...
I'm going to be reading some vignettes, some examples.
For each of the vignettes, our person is going to be Mr. John Doe.
We're very original in that regard.
I just, as I'm reading it, just would like for you to think about whether or not in each story, Mr. John Doe, if you think he might have hoarding disorder or if it's more like clutter problems or if it's really neither of those things.
Does that make sense?
Participant 33:
Yes.