With this age of eBay and everybody selling everything, I don't know that that's even exactly true.
[INAUDIBLE] like we've unearthed stuff in everybody's attic, so that lowers the value of these items.
In terms of the items like yarn and yogurt cartons and the things that virtually have no financial value or restored value, but I feel they might be useful, it just comes down to can I think of a use for them?
Can I think of a craft project for them?
That's how I determine if I'll keep it.
If I can think of a project I would like to do with it, then I keep it in case I might do that project.
Interviewer:
That's about it, I think.
That gives me a good understanding of how you determine the value of objects.
On the flip side of that, how do you decide what's trash?
Interviewee33:
That is a good question because I'm sure if you thought hard enough, you could find a use for almost anything.
I don't know.
I mean there is a point where I have too much of something, and so I say, "No, I'm not going to keep any more of these."
I guess if I just never considered it useful, then I throw it out.
I mean we actually did kind of a purge last month.
My kids wanted to have a yard sale, which I've always found to be a pretty low return on investment with yard sales, but the thing good thing is that after the yard sale, we had a bunch of stuff, and we just completely got rid of it.
Even though it was stuff like...
There was a futon that some hardware had been missing for, and even though I can think of it as useful, I can admit the fact that since we do not want that piece of furniture anymore and clearly nobody wanted to buy a futon with missing hardware, that we could put that into the trash, that it was time for that to, that we had to put that into the trash, no matter how useful it looked, no matter how nice the cover was.
It was valueless to anybody at all.
It was just taking up a huge amount of space in our basement.
It took me a lot of... I think it was around for a couple of years before I came to that realization, but I finally was able to convince myself that the only place for that huge piece of furniture to go was out with the garbage on a Wednesday morning.
I can be convinced eventually that something is valueless, but it takes a lot of trying to find someone else who might want it.
Then if you can't, you know it's got to go I guess.