Interviewer:
Gotcha.
That makes sense.
You can have too much of something or some things are never considered useful, but in some circumstances it might be useful.
I guess for you, having a smaller house, there's just the reality sometimes that there's just not enough space.
Participant 33:
Yes, yeah.
Interviewer:
Which makes sense.
Do you have any item in your house that you consider to be the most precious to you?
Participant 33:
No, I don't.
There's no single item I can think of that's really the most precious to me.
Interviewer:
That's okay.
Some people have them and some people don't.
Getting into some of the interference from maybe some of the clutter problems, can you describe a time that maybe clutter problems got in the way of something you really wanted?
Participant 33:
I would go back to the...
Nothing in particular, but I'd really like to be able to use the basement as a living space, since we don't have a lot of space, and the clutter down there does get in the way of that.
I have to think of where to put all the stuff so that we can tear out the interior and redo it.
My husband has stated he's perfectly willing to redo the basement, but we've just got to clear it out first.
It's something that I really have to think about and I really have to reduce and figure out how to package the stuff up perhaps more compactly.
Then we can get that done.
Then that would give us more living space and improve our quality of life.
Interviewer:
Is the task of having to get rid of enough stuff to make room for that remodeling, is that distressing?
Participant 33:
No. Well, maybe a little, but not much.
Mostly I have to find the time to do it, but again, I'm pulled into so many different directions.
I bet there is stuff that I could get rid of without...
Or stuff that could be digitized.
We have many photos and papers and things.
I'm pretty sure that I could digitize them and not have to keep the actual real thing.
That would get rid of probably two boxes worth of stuff down there, but I just don't know when I can do that.
I don't know.