Participant 33:
To make me feel at home?
I don't think they are important to make me feel at home at all probably.
I keep thinking that if the basement were to flood and I were to lose all of that stuff, I would be dead, but in my day-to-day life, I would not noticed it at all.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So wouldn't really...
Makes sense.
Any time you kind of lose possessions of any kind, you'd feel sad, but it wouldn't be detrimental to your overall life it sounds like.
Out of those objects that you were talking about earlier or if any of that, you haven't mentioned yet or I missed, are any of those the most important to you or that you spend a lot of time with anything in particular?
Participant 33:
No, I don't, which is the ridiculous part around it all.
I have it, but it mostly stays packed in boxes.
Then the crafting stuff or whatever, sometimes I use some of it.
I guess there's the thought that I might use most of it in the future, but in reality, very little gets done with it.
It's not very important in my day-to-day life.
I've kind of lost track of where I was going with the question, but...
Sorry.
Interviewer:
That's okay.
Participant 33:
Yeah, it's not really used on a daily basis.
Or I don't spend time with it on a daily basis.
Interviewer:
Okay, yeah, that answers my question.
It was basically how much time you spend on those things.
I think you've touched on this before, but just making sure that I have it right.
Thinking about your possessions and what makes them valuable.
It sounds like they're either things that you say have more intrinsic value, kind of like gifts or things like artwork that you inherited, and then there are things that you might use.
Generally, how do you determine if an object is valuable or not?
Participant 33:
I guess with the stuff that I've inherited, it's just what I feel.
I don't really research it or anything, but it's just sometimes it feels like it's old stuff that... I don't know, I always enjoyed history and the way that we can take these items when you go to a museum and you look at these items and you think about the history that they sort of reflect.
When I look at an item from my parents or from my grandparents and I think about the history reflected in it, I feel like it could be valuable not just to me or to my grandkids, but also that it might have some financial value too just in its age.
Then of course the older that it gets, perhaps the more valuable that it gets, but I'm not sure.