Interviewer:
It seems like you've put thought then into how you're going to organize the items and how you're going to determine what you keep and you've started thinking about where you might put these items or where you might donate them.
Is this something you were thinking about prior to COVID?
Participant 34:
Yes, it is something I was thinking of prior to COVID, just because I realize that I have more stuff than I want.
And some things that I've kept around that are limited utility or things that I use once a year.
So I don't know.
Interviewer:
Being in your own space more and staying in your home didn't push you to start thinking about this?
It just gave you more time, it seems to CROSSTALK
Participant 34:
Yes, I think so.
Interviewer:
Okay.
And how have you been doing with your physical health since quarantine started?
Participant 34:
I'm not too bad looking.
I've been making my regular doctor appointments, taking all my medications that I have for various [INAUDIBLE] things as an 75 year old medication for.
And then, maintain social distance, wearing masks, all those kind of things.
My work for the census, really pressing managers not to assign me field work, as much as possible to give me things like phone calls and cases to follow up with mostly on the phone.
I was hired as a supervisor, but they didn't give us people to supervise because the work stretched out over several months, due to the postponements from the initial wave of COVID.
So it's been an amazing thing to observe.
But once it's done, I have a stack of manuals and handbooks that I can recycle immediately and save a lot of space.
And I just have one small computer to turn in.
Interviewer:
That's not too much.
The manuals probably take up much more space than the one small computer.
And how have you been feeling and doing mentally since about March?
Participant 34:
Well, I have a housemate who we were friends and have some history together, but we've been living together for two years, and he hasn't been doing his part in paying for expenses and rent and so forth.
And largely, he has mental health problems and spends much of his time playing video games.
And I finally have gotten to the point of saying, after this lease is done, I'm parting ways with you.
I'm not supporting you any longer.
He's not prepared for that.
And he has not had good relations with his children or his ex-wife or any of the friends he's had.
And he's having some really serious problems, but I'm not qualified to resolve those problems.
And I don't want to keep solving them by paying his expenses.
So-
Interviewer:
Yeah, so that's-