Then they came to me and they said, "We need more people to work on an elevated level, with an increased knowledge," et cetera, et cetera.
Since I was an RN, they wanted to make me an epidemiologist, basically, helping the existing epis do direct contact with the cases.
I took a look and I thought, okay, they've got a real need, because the case load's picking up significantly.
I'm the only person out of the 100 or whatever of us that was an RN.
Basically, working a 12 hour shift meant that ... I have two dogs at home, and I would take my one hour lunch break to drive home like a mad woman, let the dogs out to pee, and what have you, and grab a sandwich out of the fridge or whatever, and eat it on the way driving back.
I thought, I don't want to do 12 hour shifts anymore.
I negotiated four 10s a week, and a willingness to do extra partial days.
Interviewer:
You've been keeping super busy.
Participant 035:
They said, that's not in the pattern ...
Huh?
Interviewer:
You've been keeping extremely busy.
Participant 035:
I did.
It worked really well, until just before the 4th of July, when supervisor came to me and said, we need continuity and all the other epis, all of these kids that graduated with their masters in public health couldn't find any jobs, and so they were getting staffed up with epis.
Plus, I'm monolingual, and some of these kids also spoke Spanish and Vietnamese.
That really helped with our population.
The need wasn't there anymore.
Basically, it came down to, they needed for me to work the same shift as the rest of the epis were, which was six days a week, eight-hour shifts.
I thought, no. Not going to do it.
And, had also started having trouble with sleep, after working with some of my case families.
It's just-
Interviewer:
Stressful.
Participant 035:
... awful.
Anyway.
I held onto-
Interviewer:
To decide it wasn't worth it.
Participant 035:
... I thought nope, I can't do six eights.
Cannot do it.
They released me from my contract.
I'm back home again.
Interviewer:
You were keeping busy for a while there, but then it just sounds like it didn't work out.
Participant 035:
Yeah.
I was keeping busy.
Wasn't dealing with the clutter.
That's kind of, thinking back now, in 2005, I started working as a consultant.
Rather than being a clinician or nurse educator based in the healthcare system, I was traveling.
My life from 2005 to 2016 was generally getting on a plane on Sundays, and traveling to the client site, and then traveling back home on a Thursday or Friday.
Then, doing it again.