Participant 035:
... the clutter that I've just, don't keep a neat house, et cetera, et cetera.
Lots of tchotchkes, things and that, all over the place.
Over the years, it has evolved into more of a hoarding thing.
I think the biggest issue is clothing.
It's crazy.
That is, as far as taking up space and everything, it's clothing.
But, the other thing that really affects me is not being able to find stuff, and either having to purchase to replace or whatever.
Then, the third piece is the clutter hoarding originally, occupied two rooms, and it's growing.
It affects my ability to use the space I have in my home, and makes me reluctant to socialize, invite people over.
Interviewer:
If you have any problems hearing me at any point, just let me know.
Participant 035:
Okay.
Interviewer:
Now we're going to move into the more, just conversational part of our interview.
I'd like to start by asking you to tell me a little bit about what this has been like for you.
How it began, how it became a part of your life, and how it moved to how it is now?
Participant 035:
How did it begin?
Okay.
I've basically always been messy.
I've always hung onto things, either because of memories or just didn't, getting used to, this is what it looks like.
It started getting out of control where yeah, I had cluttered drawers, and maybe had too many knickknacks here and around, to instead of a cluttered drawer, it evolved into a junk room, maybe an extra bedroom that started filling up.
I thought, that's okay.
Everybody has some messy room, where bits and pieces of their lives lived, just to be pulling out the things that you need.
Then, it started taking over, and again, it would turn into, good Lord, where do I start?
Where do I start dealing with this?
Just feeling helpless, and having that inability to get up and deal with it.
Interviewer:
It sounds like it's always been with you a little bit, in the sense of, you've always had problems staying organized.
It crept up on you in terms of its presence in your space, where first, it was just one room, and then it just evolved from there, of how much space was being taken up.
Does that sound right?
Participant 035:
Right.
That does, yeah.
At the same time, the depression overlays a lot of it.
I'd be aware of my mood, and that sort of thing.
It's like, oh, I can just sit here all day and not do anything, and there sits ...
My bar is three inches deep in mail that needs to be just thrown out, this, that and the other.
Just not being willing to get up and deal with it.
Interviewer:
Do you notice that when you're feeling depressed, it's harder for you to deal with your stuff?
So it tends to pile up more.