Interviewee:
Perhaps.
For sure he has organizational problems.
He keeps tools so he can use them.
With that many tools scattered around the house, it's unlikely when he's looking for a [Vise by 16 Box in Wrench ] he going to be able to find.
He's looking for the number one Philips screwdriver [INAUDIBLE].
Do something to et his tools organized so he can use them.
And, Before if you leave stuff running around that stuff...I'll tell you what my son in law does to some if my tools when working on his garage.
I think that guy has more of an organizational problem than a clutter problem.
Terrible clutter problem also.
For sure no tool in the world deserves to be store in the bathtub.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm .
So in this case maybe he doesn't have as much stuff to count as having hoarding problems but you think he definitely has problem with organization, because there is no way he could be using those tools, probably if they're that disorganized?
Interviewee:
Exactly.
If he can organize himself, now hell just be a well equipped fellow.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm .
Definitely I understand.
S I have one more of these vineyard stories so bare with me okay?, We'll do another lady.
"Mary has several antiques that she keeps because she like them and she knows that they're valuable.
She goes out once a week and buys more antiques.
She's worried that she might get rid of an antique item that's worth a lot of money.
Antiques occupy every room.
Before entering her bathroom she has to remove several antique items.
Often it's difficult for her to find her car keys and wallet and she'll spend 30 minutes to an hour looking for them.
Until she eventually finds them or forgets what she was looking for.
She's almost always to getting where she needs to go and sometimes she doesn't show up at all."
Is this a person who has hoarding problems?
Interviewee:
I think so, yes ma'am.
Interviewer:
How come?
Interviewee:
She has an interference in using the bathroom appropriately.
And she's really filled up her house to the point.
By just a mental picture, she can't enjoy the antiques that she's collecting.
So now I order twice the antiques so then I have to dust it be able to admire it sometimes.
I have a box, with all the antiques that used to be a little more fluent one time I rode down, reproduction of the center.[INAUDIBLE] I can hardly see it right now because there's no place else fore it, amongst cardboard boxes.
I'll take a little video of my roo after this conversation.[INAUDIBLE]
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm .
So in this case of vineyard, She definitely does have hoarding problems according to your opinion.
Because if she's got all these-CROSSTALK.
Go ahead.
Interviewee:
[INAUDIBLE] please.