Interviewee:
Look at my [INAUDIBLE] that's what I was.
Interviewer:
How has-
Interviewee:
[INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer:
Yeah, how has your life been impacted by COVID?
Can you talk to me about that?
Interviewee:
Sure.
So it's been impacted about as much as some.
I've remained in the EVEN section.
Which means, what's impacted me the most is restrictions on where I can go and what I can do.
There are a lot more of these in Texas, are pretty much voluntary.
If you want to be a good citizen you'll wear a mask.
If you don't want to be a good citizen you don't have to.
You walk around and talk to people you can talk to.
And I don't want that [INAUDIBLE] that's impacted me a bit.
Where it's really impacted the very most though is I used to help spend time[INAUDIBLE] A used book store, a walk away.
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm AFFIRMATIVE.
Interviewee:
Over here, What I really get done here, I think it's a combined Harris County Public Library.
Combined Lone Star Community College library, it's one building on the Lone Star community college campus there're other campuses in this library [INAUDIBLE] Library selections and there's a used book store there run by friends of the library, so people can donate their used books.
We try and sell the used books[INAUDIBLE] I'll take it to the library.
So, it gives me great satisfaction for books that are no longer loved or room for it to place in your [INAUDIBLE] We take them in there, we sell them and we get money to help run the library.
Feel real good abut that, I really like using the library because I can change a book, give it back to them I've got more reason to give I can't find them in here.
I had literally thousands of books in my basement, I used to be a ferocious reader.
I don't read like I used to, I'm not nearly as fast, my comprehension is down, my retention is down.
But I used to really read.
Still like to read, but it's not the joy that it was.
Anyway, I still hear about the cause of the problem such, to know the martian closed down the library, book stores and [INAUDIBLE].
And it's not there just makes it inconvenient, VIRTUALLY it's still there but it's not open for anybody.
The library is still closed.
So that [INAUDIBLE] out to be my...There's the senior center, friends are looking at old movies, talk to people we had exercise classes all the other stuff that goes on at the Senior Center.
Now it's open again but it's not like it was back down there, it sure was my habitat.CROSSTALK to be there as much as anything.
Interviewer:
Do you feel like COVID has impacted your clutter or your hoarding problems at all?
Interviewee:
No.