And she says, "No, and if you open the closet door you'll just see more magazines.
I [INAUDIBLE]."
And that's to me an example of ... I could really say, "Yes, it's my Aunt Helen.
She's my father's younger sister.
My father's younger brother is able recognize this place.
Subsequent to in Alex.
it's a whole another story.
There's a nice lady called Dr. Rhonda Patrick, she's in a different fied of science than you are.
She's [INAUDIBLE] and herself a research scientist down in California and she encouraged people like me to get the DNA test because she had done a tool help to check your DNA for propensities.
She'll do her primary research with nutrition, and health AGENTS.
To make a long story short, I did it and sure enough going back to Prometheus, which is a little different service than hers, yep, I got that and... I have a younger brother who has the same problem.
[INAUDIBLE] California.
Interviewer:
So you know that it is genetic because everybody in your family seems to have problems with it.
Have you noticed in his children?
Participant 036:
[INAUDIBLE] people, yes, ma'am, for sure.
Interviewer:
Do you feel you ever met anybody outside of your family where you thought they might have this problem or you suspected that they might have this problem?
Participant 036:
No, ma'am.
Interviewer:
Have you ever seen-
Participant 036:
[INAUDIBLE].
Sorry.
Interviewer:
Go ahead.
Participant 036:
You got to give an example of where it's a problem because my brother ...
It doesn't matter.
You probably don't even-
Interviewer:
No, no. Go ahead.
Please give me the example.
Participant 036:
So my brother has a house in Turlock, and his wife left him.
He can be nasty.
He's nastier than I am sometimes.
Sometimes [INAUDIBLE] or we go to visit him, he's got this nice table he and his wife had.
You could seat 12 people, at it sort of entertain for the church there were a lot of people over.
He had this so full stuff that's the stuff he keeps on the horizontal surfaces, that there's only room for him to sit from this good light to read.
If I want to sit there and eat a meal with him, or read a book or something.
There's no room for it.
So we get to fight over the one space that's open to sit and read.
It's [INAUDIBLE].
So I don't visit him anymore, for other reasons but that's one of them.
[INAUDIBLE] I'm not quite that bad or not that far either.
When I was is Golden, I was living by myself.
My kitchen counter was so cluttered with stuff.
You could put something down, and disappear into it.
Interviewer:
So-
Participant 036:
People would comment about that, but I did keep the kitchen table open enough that a few people could sit there if needed.