Interviewer:
Gotcha.
Can you tell me a little bit more about why, you said that you have never thought of seeking treatment, why is that?
Do you not think that your hoarding is as bad as the people you were just describing or why not seek treatment?
Interviewee:
I know my hoarding is bad and right now I have a relationship.
I've had a relationship with another woman for, coming up next month it will be 44 years.
Interviewer:
Oh, congratulations.
Interviewee:
Yeah.
Thank you.
She doesn't like the fact that I hoard.
For instance, we have a basement in our house and it's practically unusable because of all the things that I won't throw away.
She makes noises from time to time that, "Please make an effort to get rid of some of your stuff.
It would be nice to use the basement."
Again, I don't feel that it's something that I need to, I honestly don't, I mean, I've gone to, have sought therapy about other issues in my life three different times.
One person was very helpful for me, but in general I end up entertaining the therapist because I've had a very unusual, very rich diverse life and, in fact, the last therapist even told me that she looked forward to our meetings so she could hear my stories.
She had the nerve to actually tell me that.
I suspected it, but when she actually admitted it to me then I quit immediately.
Anyway, two of my therapists I've gotten very little help and I really don't think that a therapist or a psychiatrist could help me at all.
I don't think it's the kind of behavior that's amenable.
Interviewer:
You don't think so, your hoarding, you don't think it can be fixed?
Interviewee:
Nope.
I don't.
I really do think that it is something that was just burned into you as a kid for various reasons or that it's genetic.
My father had a terrible hoarding problem.
Interviewer:
I was just going to ask if you had any family member that had had it.
Interviewee:
Yeah.
We were ranchers but then we moved to Arizona and had our own house down there.
He had a shed that was about a size of a small house and that shed was absolutely chocked full of stuff he'd pick up mainly off the road.
His idea was that, "Well, maybe I can use this sometime."
That's a lot of my reasoning.
He never got over it, he eventually sold that house where the shed was, but then he started where he moved to a ranch in a different part of Tucson, he started another shed.
It was not as full as the old one but it was the same kind of thing.
Interviewer:
Right.