Interviewee:
I'm very appreciative.
I don't want to make it seem like it's all negative because living with family has helped me a lot; it's been a blessing and a beneficial thing, but it's just those little things sometimes that are a bit irksome.
We tell each other this all the time.
It's not like whatever I'm saying to you I haven't said to my mom CROSSTALK.
[INAUDIBLE], "Mom, why are you making me do this?" [INAUDIBLE], "You don't need all this stuff."
I'm like, "Okay."
Then she was like, "I have to do it too," which is good because some people don't have that, like my ex.
He definitely didn't have that.
Interviewee:
So yeah, it's just the frustration of having to go through all this stuff.
I'm like, "Geez, I have way too much stuff."
I have to sit and go through so much stuff to figure out, "Okay, am I going to keep this or am I not going to keep this?", or you do this good job of getting rid of a whole bunch of stuff, and then a month or two later, you need the stuff that you gave away, you donated.
It's like, "Ugh, now I have to go and buy this again?"
Interviewer:
Yeah, that can be frustrating.
So do you think this behavior's ever gotten in the way of your daily life or gotten in the way of something that you really wanted?
Interviewee:
When I was in Maryland, yeah, because I was getting depressed.
I had just gone through a break-up.
I was having issues with my boyfriend at the time, and that is where my cluttering came to a head because it was really bad.
I could barely open the door.
You could open the door, but opening it full because, my room setup was different too but I had a pile of clean clothes here, pile of clean clothes there.
It just was getting out of control.
One time it was so bad, I even had clean clothes on the bed and slept with clean clothes on my bed.
I'm like, I never did that before.
So that's when it got bad, and I didn't really want to do anything.
I was always cleaning, but nothing was tangibly changing in my opinion.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So what would you say it got in the way of?
Interviewee:
Just being able to enjoy my room and do crafts because I like to do crafts, but since my room was such a mess, I really wasn't able to sit on the floor and do coloring or do crochet or cross-stitch because there was no place to sit in my room because there was something on every surface, whether the bed or the little seated area that I had in my room.
There was something on every part of my room.