Interviewee:
It's a small bedroom.
I have a full-sized bed, dresser, [INAUDIBLE] and a bookcase [INAUDIBLE].
I'm in the process of doing laundry, so it doesn't look great, but just working on, I mean my room looks pretty organized.
I still have some stuff I need to get out, but overall, my room is very functional.
I can walk around and I don't trip over anything [INAUDIBLE].
Interviewer:
Okay.
Are all your possessions in your room?
Would you keep anything else in other parts of the home?
Interviewee:
Yeah.
My ex has stuff, like hair products and some of my craft products, and then winter clothes, they're in the garage.
Then I have, for when I do move out because my goal is by 2021, I have cooking products.
Some of the stuff we have in the kitchen already but then the rest, the stuff that's brand new in boxes, they're downstairs in the garage.
That's where everyone has their excess stuff that doesn't fit in their room.
It's downstairs in the garage, but it's not the whole garage.
It's a very small part of the garage and it doesn't even make up a third of the space in the garage.
So, it's not a lot.
Interviewee:
When we moved back to Florida, we emptied all our storage and then the stuff we had in different rooms, because every time we moved we had a storage, we did ... we'll say four full-sized U-Haul trips worth of stuff, like collectively.
Maybe if we want to say how much of the stuff was mine, maybe one full-sized U-Haul of stuff was mine [INAUDIBLE] all the things that I had.
Some stuff I probably wish I wouldn't have donated, but I mean now someone else has it, so what can I do?
It really conceptualizes how much stuff that you have.
I know that's a long roundabout answer to the question, but 90% of the stuff that I had was donated, so now I have like 10% of the stuff that I have now.
Now I'm trying to work on getting even less, but then coronavirus happened.
COVID-19.
That kind of put a hold on stuff.
Interviewer:
Yeah, it's kind of ruined everyone's plans right now.
Interviewee:
Yes.
Interviewer:
So what would you like your home to look like?
Interviewee:
In general?
Interviewer:
Mm-hmm AFFIRMATIVE.