Participant 041:
Yeah. So, I think about it at least once a week, but I'm like, "Okay, maybe I can get my dad to send me something, but who knows?
I guess we're estranged.
We're estranged, so sometimes he'll do the right thing and sometimes he won't.
It's like he wants me to do all these different things and I'm like, "You're my dad.
You should be doing these things for me.
Why should I have to do all these things for you first?", you know?
But that's neither here nor there.
Continue with your questions.
Interviewer:
So, I'm trying to think [INAUDIBLE] the next one.
So for this next thing is distinguishing hoarding disorder.
How would you say the difference between normal saving behavior and hoarding disorder is?
Participant 041:
Like a person doesn't realize that their items are impeding on their personal life.
They don't realize that the things are not benefiting them; they're more so taking away from them, like their interaction with people.
At least for me, I mean I live with family so I wouldn't be really having people over anyway because my mother is very particular about who comes over [INAUDIBLE] have dinner parties and stuff, so very rarely are people in my room but I know that when I do have my own place, that's one thing I want to make sure, like I don't let my living space get out of control where it's like piles of clothes, buying a whole bunch of stuff that I don't need.
That's one thing I want to make sure I work on while I'm still living at home.
CROSSTALK can't rely on my mom for when I have my own place because my thing is, I used to always buy like, "Oh, this is on sale," and, "Oh, it's only this," so I'll buy a gazillion of these things and I never use it.
It's just sitting there, or you just donate it.
I'm like, "Okay, you buy stuff and then you return it."
Participant 041:
Just knowing that, "Okay, you only need so much.
If you're not going to use it in a year, do you really need it?" That's what I'm thinking.
Some people that hoard or that clutter, it's like, "You're buying all that stuff, but are you going to use it within a year's time?"
Interviewer:
Okay.
So-
Participant 041:
That's how I try to think of it as.
"Are you going to use this up?", or, "How is this benefiting you?", whereas someone who's hoarding, they're not thinking of the pros and cons of something.
They just want it right now.
Interviewer:
Yeah, that's a pretty good comparison.
So what would you say hoarding disorder does look like, and how is that the same or different from your behavior?