Interviewee:
I watch Hoarders all the time, and hoarders have no regard for what it is that they're keeping.
I know everyone is different, but ...
Well no, I wouldn't say that.
After a while, they just become blind to the mess.
I dated someone who was a hoarder, and I was like, "Oh my God."
He took me to his house and it was ... terrible.
They didn't have any pets or anything, so it wasn't like animal droppings or anything, but [INAUDIBLE] a mess.
We broke up because, yeah.
His father was a hoarder and he picked up those tendencies from him, so it was just paper everywhere, dust on everything.
You have a vacuum cleaner, but I'm sure you've never used it.
Kid stuff from when he was four or five years old, just hanging different places.
The basement was full of stuff from the '70s because his father is older, so stuff from the '70s and '80s.
Like they have analog TVs in the basement.
His room, just a mess.
His sister's room, even though his sister left, a mess.
Just stuff everywhere, and then ...
You know how sometimes stuff has an old smell?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Interviewee:
Like that-
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee:
But for him.
Yeah, but for him, he was so used to it.
He's like [INAUDIBLE].
I'm like, "No, this is gross.
I don't like this."
So he had an idea that it was bad and he really didn't have people over, so the few times that I was over to stay for maybe an hour, two hours at most, that was really pushing it for me.
It was a lot.
When I would get home, I just would immediately take off my clothes and take a shower because it was gross.
It was gross.
I really wish I would've took pictures, but I was just being a good girlfriend and didn't do that, but ...
Interviewer:
Yeah.
So-
Interviewee:
Yeah, so no concept of that, and cleaning was just ... not something that they would really do.
I tried to help him clean, well I offered to help him clean, but he's like, "I have to do it myself," and then his dad would get upset if he would clean any area that he was in.
It was just bad.
Interviewer:
So do you think there's a way to tell that someone has a hoarding disorder without being in their home?