Interviewer:
I know you said that your husband had problems with collecting and stuff, how did that impact your relationship on both sides?
On your side and his?
Interviewee:
It was a fight every day about the behavior, and then I would give up.
I would say, "I can't change other people."
I didn't know how bad it was going to get.
I would create one room in which nothing was allowed to be in that room, and then sort of deal with it that way.
Then he created a workshop and built it up, nobody was supposed to go in there.
I guess it solved slightly by separating rooms out.
That's what was happening, because I guess he was happy to own several acres and seven or eight sheds.
Where he lives now that's what it's like.
I think it's a problem just about every day or every week, you want to face it, you want to do something about it, but nothing gets done.
I think it's a major contributor to ongoing problems all the time.
Interviewer:
How did it effect raising your children and how your kids behave now?
Interviewee:
One of them, she won't admit it though, maybe one of these days, she took psychology.
I'm like I can see why you took that.
She gets better all the time.
If you gave her a choice, I mean we both used to go dumpster diving together.
Let's go get something.
Let's find some stuff, okay.
Actually, she did find one thing that was very valuable.
I couldn't understand why she did that, because her dad very much and me somewhat and grandpa, people around here.
That's okay, you can go ahead and gather that.
Her uncle was a coin collector and collector of old toys and just had everything.
I think that influences your babyhood, your childhood and then well, she's only 27 right now.
She got a long way to go, but she's moved seven times and the last time it was had to throw everything away.
Well, you know what?
It might be good.
It's stuff and you had to say goodbye to it.
It's like heartbreaking for some people.
They really don't want to keep moving and throw away their things.
I think it influenced her quite a bit.
Interviewer:
Are they also actively like trying to change this behavior?
Interviewee:
Excuse me?
Interviewer:
Are they actively trying to change their behavior so they're not collecting as much?
Interviewee:
That's a good question.
I have not asked.
I say things like, "How are you doing?" I'm afraid to ask her if she's actively changed anything.
I would say the little one, the 27 year old, she's appearing to from what she tells me on the phone, yes, having I think forced by circumstances, yes, not by counseling or anything like that, but because she had to.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Interviewee:
Yes.
Interviewer:
We're getting towards the end here, but one of the last questions is would you be upset if you had to get rid of some of your items?