Interviewer:
Okay. This next section is going to be kind of talking about like the space and your living area.
Can you please describe where you or how you live now?
Do you live alone?
What does the space kind of look like?
Participant 042:
Today it's kind of really messy, but sometimes I get it all cleaned up.
I have no file cabinets or anything so I have a storage and I end up making the 22 mile round trip just to go to the storage.
How that goes is I am going to store this, wait a minute, why I am storing this?
Why don't I just throw it away?
Why am I paying $41 for storage?
It's almost like really self-discrimination.
I'll tell my daughter, "Yes, it's just stuff, blankets, and that stuff in storage is yours."
She herself tends to like gather certain things.
I think it's usually furniture.
What I have is like one stool, one bed, temporary guestroom, part of a closet.
I'm not overboard on the clothing that I know of, but it's not in order like it needs to be.
I have like the documents, the papers, the mail, the stuff I need, but I think I'm going to mail some on Tuesday.
Yeah, carry bag, separate bag, and shopping bags so that I can think what category it is and put it away.
I have that which is not neat.
Interviewer:
That's all in your home that you live in right now or that was in the storage unit?
Participant 042:
My home, yes.
I have a temporary guestroom where I use to have a rented room and it was a little bit better.
I'm trying to think if it was better back then.
Interviewer:
It sounds like there's some parts of the home that you don't use.
You don't use the guest room, because it's a storage space?
Participant 042:
I sleep in the one bed, one stool, one lamp room unless somebody's coming to here, which hasn't happened due to the virus I guess.
Prior to the virus I would vacate this room if somebody needs it.
There's an older person that's the homeowner and then there's now me in a different section in this little guest room so that's what I have.
Actually, I did throw away some stuff.
Some times I congratulate myself, I threw away some stuff.
Yes.
There was a contest.
I could generate some things.
Interviewer:
You are currently living alone or are you living with other people?
Participant 042:
One other person.
The homeowner person who is 79 years of age and sometimes technically has been told her health issues need to be checked on, can be the same as a person actually certianly, but I leave and come back.
I'm not doing what you call too much quarantine, self isolating the last four weeks.
Interviewer:
What would you like your home to look like if you were able to change it?