Interviewee:
I think mostly from family friends, from being in my 26 year marriage to someone that I had to ask repeatedly to move things, to get help, and the person said, "No, I was raised this way.
I have to accumulate."
I would fight that battle.
I would say, "I see, okay, you don't want to clean it up.
You can't do it."
Finding out that his father and also people on the paternal side were that way, I said, "This is what this is."
Trying not to example it too much to your daughters, but sometimes of course doing so.
Yeah, lots of familiarity with everybody struggling with it basically.
Interviewer:
When you think about...
What do you think about when you hear the words hoarding disorder?
Interviewee:
I think insecure person, needs some help, and I think it's tough.
I feel sympathy, because I know it's tough.
I think that person is having a tough time, and it's not an easy win-win situation where you have a sense of resolution.
That's what I usually... I mean I've been hired by one lady to help her, but I began to see it was almost to help her so yeah.
Interviewer:
When she hired you, was she a friend that wanted help or how did she find you?
Interviewee:
She was a person who hid it well, that was a contact in the community I used to live in, in the north east of Gainesville, and she said nothing about her collection.
She said, "I need help moving, I'm a renting a truck later.
I'll rent a pod and a shed, and I'll put everything outside.
I have an elderly relative, I'm alone, I can't do this.
I'll pay you to take my hidden things and my visible things and all my things."
I didn't know how important they were to her.
Then recently I volunteered to clean someone's apartment and that was another experience.
I got there, we knew this man, but we didn't know the man kept multiple items that belonged to his mother and multiple antiques and multiple furniture and multiple clothes.
We didn't know till we go there.
It was the same, I thought, "Well, this is what it looks like when you don't get help and you're 67 years old and you've been collecting your whole life."
It's sad and it's unmanageable and it actually makes other people very mad I learned.
In fact, I took some of his stuff.
I said, "What am I doing?
Well, I need this."
It sounds funny now, but at the time they were like, "Wait a minute."
Interviewer:
That kind of leads perfectly into our next section which is discussing distress in regards to your behavior.
It sounds like your behavior upsets you.
Do you think it's getting in the way of your daily life?