Participant 042:
Would I?
Yeah, I had to over the years.
I had to, I had to, and I had to.
Every now and then I think about it.
The thought was I have to.
Actually, I lived in the country side and had a burn barrel and I just burned stuff, because at the times I went to the dump and I just threw stuff without looking through it.
Yes.
I've done that.
I don't know if it sounds like I'm being kind of proud of it, but it was necessary.
I was living in a really small space for six months and another a small space for six months.
That's it.
Interviewer:
What were those emotions like when you had to get rid of something?
Participant 042:
I haven't really faced it yet, but I will.
I think it was kind of do this and don't think about it, just compartmentalize, push it over here, put it away and don't think about it.
Interviewer:
My final question is would you like to change and why or why not?
Participant 042:
Yes, because change is almost INAUDIBLE for me, and because it would be easier to, I'll say achieve a goal, come to the end of something, complete something.
I think that would be easier if I didn't create obstacles.
I think I would learn better time use.
I think I would be freer from the full time job of hoarding my stuff.
All of that.
Interviewer:
Actually, I missed a question, I didn't realize that.
Along with lines of would you like to change and stuff, how did this effect your work life?
Participant 042:
I think I'd be able to make more myself when I was steady working say  to six every night at one place I worked for 12 months.
Yeah, just about a year there.
I was able to leave it, leave the home I had, I no longer have that house, and go to work and not think about it.
Leave work, go back home.
You leave your lifestyle behind and just go do the job the way you're suppose to do it.
Towards the end of that job, I would think some things at my home effected me losing that job.
Yes, it's not good if it spills over and effects everything.
Interviewer:
You're able to maintain that separation between home and work, it's fine, but once they start kind of mixing it, it causes problems for your work?
Participant 042:
Correct.
That's true.
That's happened.
I worked for INAUDIBLE that was fine.
It was okay.
Interviewer:
All right.
Do you have any questions for me?
Participant 042:
When is the next something?
Do I do anything next?
END_OF_RECORDING