Participant 45:
I guess what you're interested in appears in this world.
It seems to be a lot of it around and then the material isn't different so you can go back to these books and just keep reviewing and keep going over the techniques.
I probably should start each day with that, which is an interesting idea.
It just came to me that I would review this kind of thing and then just try to enact one of these tools or one of these techniques right away instead of being theoretical which is I have a hard time moving from theoretical to action.
Interviewer:
Yeah, that can often be quite difficult.
So that just made me think of something, has your problem ever impacted your work life?
Participant 45:
Yes.
I think it definitley did.
Interviewer:
In what ways would you say it impacted?
Participant 45:
Well, a completely disorganized desk and not being able to find notes about what I needed to be doing and then just the inefficiency ...We haven't talked about this.
The huge inefficiencies of not being able to find something and the amount of time and this is a very common thing, amount of time wasted just looking for X that you need.
If you'd done it immediately ... that's why I do the bills immediately when they come in because then you're not wasting any time looking for that bill and it does wonders for your credit rating because you are the world's fastest bill payer.
The minute it arrives I pay my bills.
But like a lot of people who have these problems you can waste so much time searching for something you need.
Interviewer:
That's very interesting because I know often people will say everything looks very messy but they know exactly what's in each pile and you're very honest, you're like, "I don't know what's in this pile.
I'm going to have to search for it."
I think that's very interesting.
Participant 45:
Well, when I was working I was better at knowing what was in the piles because I just simply had to know and it couldn't get quite so out of hand but once it gets totally out of hand and then the other problem is ... this is huge, people come, so you swoop everything up and mix everything up and put it in a box, get it hauled out of the public's face or the place where the person's going to be permitted to come and then it gets more and more confused.