No one could come here.
And my neighbor keeps saying, "Well just get this cleared out.
I'll come and we'll go boom, boom, boom, and it'll be all done and you'll feel so much better."
But now that she's given up saying that because she said it so many times and now she can't ... she used to be able to come over for tea and now she can't even come in the house any more because it's gotten so bad and that's so wrong because ... I mean, once ...
Then shelter-in-place happened so I've got a little break here to get ready and I want to use the shelter-at-home time to do this and at least get the living room, dining room cleared enough and then also the kitchen cleared enough so someone can come back and finish the work because it's not usable really.
I mean I use it but nobody else could possibly use it like that.
It's a rare skill.
It's sort of like camping out.
Interviewer:
Okay, so does this behavior get in the way of your daily life and has it got in the way of something you really want then?
Participant 45:
Well, yes, because I mean, it's my top number one goal is to accomplish this and my goal is each day to move ... my therapist is asking me to ... or suggesting I do baby steps but keep at it and make ...
If you take enough baby steps you start getting progress and I think that makes sense but I'm not doing that and I think this whole shelter-in-place thing hasn't helped any, oddly enough.
Other people have and I have friends that say, 'Oh, I cleaned out every closet in my house.
I'm looking for projects," and I think, "Come here".
There's not a clean closet in the house and you can't even sit down on the furniture or I can't put people in beds.
I've got one, two, three, a bunch of beds that you can't even get into.
So with my father's clothes, old clothes and at one time I did take a huge pile of my father's slacks down to my sisters and I just left them there and I never heard a peep from her.
She didn't complain.
She didn't say what she'd done about it but at least she stepped up about it and apparently she got rid of them or something.
I don't know.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Participant 45:
Our communication wasn't good on that subject and I hesitate to bring it up.
Interviewer:
Would it upset you if she told you that she had gotten rid of them?
Participant 45:
I don't think I want to hear.
I think, yeah.
Interviewer:
Okay.
Participant 45:
A little bit.
Not, I mean, I know it's the right thing and I would never say anything bad about it but I would feel it inside my body, yes.