Interviewee46:
So, well the dining room table, can't use that.
The coffee table in the living room, you can't use that.
The third bedroom, you can't use at all.
There's an ironing board in there stacked with a million clothes.
No, you can't use that at all.
There's nothing I can get into there, unless I start de-cluttering.
The stairwell was getting a little too tight for me.
When I fell, it was obvious I would not be able to walk down.
We had to put in a second rail, and it was obvious that I would not be able to walk down those stairs unless I got rid of some of the stuff.
So just on need alone...
And what I'm trying to do is devalue the items.
So if I take it out of the family room and put it in my basement and let it sit there for a while, I have now relegated to the basement.
To me the basement is mostly trash.
Interviewer:
Mostly trash?
Interviewee46:
Yeah.
Interviewer:
That's like-
Interviewee46:
It's a two-car garage, but I can only barely squeeze one car in there.
But I've devalued it to a, if it's in there I can get rid of it, so why am I keeping it?
Now some things I do get rid of.
Like I said, the broken snippers by the garbage can that I haven't been able to dump them in there.
I'm just waiting for my ex to come around and give me a new pair.
We'll see how I progress on this.
I'm dying to go home and get rid of that spice jar, but I'll have to see when I get home today if I feel the same, so.
Interviewer:
So it does sound like you feel your home is cluttered, would you say that?
Interviewee46:
Yes.
Interviewer:
Yes.
What would you ideally like your home to look like?
Interviewee46:
Well, before, at one point I had a couple of friends that I would invite over, and even some of them stayed, and I don't know how I left...
Oh, I hoarded the garage.
They never went into the garage.
But the rest of the house was pretty immaculate.
Someone stayed in my family room downstairs.
Someone stayed in my extra bedroom upstairs.
Not the back one, that one was still hoarded.
The kitchen was immaculate.
You could eat off the dining room table.
I used to have my brother over for family dinners.
So obviously those were all okay.
I think I'd like to be able to invite people back.
So then I'm not embarrassed, you know what I mean?
Interviewer:
Yes.
So you would just like to de-clutter them a bit more?