And so my contractor is probably the only one who's ever seen the fully Monty.
He's seen, because he has to get to everything, right?
The upstairs and downstairs.
And so he's probably the only one in my life.
Not even my ex has seen the full Monty now.
Now he's seen the full Monty, meaning everything.
Upstairs, downstairs, outside, backyard.
And he has finally said after, well it's been 20 years working together on my house.
He finally just said last year, "I can't do anything anymore unless you get rid of some stuff."
So-
Interviewer:
So it sounds like all of this was a reaction to moving a lot in your childhood, and not knowing if you would have resources available, like you mentioned, has caused a lot of conflict within your personal relationships.
But do you see your behavior as a problem?
Participant 46:
I do, because I can't understand.
So I tried to narrow it down to just a few things I have to think about.
So the other day I finished a spice jar, and I said, "Oh, that's a cute jar."
Now it's a standard spice jar and it comes with all spices.
I could get a million of them if I wanted to, and it's still sitting on my counter, empty.
I'm thinking of a dual use, and I want to throw it in the garbage can.
And of course I've seen it on TV, on Hoarders TV where they say, "Now what would happen in your life if you did throw it away?" And I use that test and say, "I still can't throw it away."
It's still on my counter.
There's nothing special about it.
I have to emotional attachment to it.
I have a, if I don't have it and I need it approach to it.
Now here's the change.
In the last, since I fell and I needed more space, I've decided to, "Okay, I'm only going to make it one item, and not think about everything else, and I'm going to throw it into the garbage," and it took everything out of me, all this, I drained me, not to get it back out, out of the garbage can, pick it up, and now it's gone from my life and I don't have to worry about it, and I guess-
Interviewer:
How did you feel doing that?