Participant 46:
Yeah, well when I hurt my leg I had to take a photo of it to show to the doctor, and in the background... I looked at the photo and I said, "Look at all this stuff.
I can't take a photo anywhere in my house without all this stuff."
So I realized, I think seeing the photo of the place, and also maybe watching TV with this hoarder shows, that it just probably came over to me after I fell is, I got too much stuff, and I don't use it all.
It just sits there, so-
Interviewer:
The hoarding TV show, how do you...
I've seen those on TV as well.
How do you feel about that show?
Would you say it's an accurate portrayal, or do you like or dislike the way that they make people who struggle with hoarding disorder appear?
Participant 46:
No I actually think, and I do get tips from them.
I actually think it's a good show.
I understand-
Interviewer:
Really?
Okay, so you find it helpful?
Participant 46:
Yes, that's why I watch it, because I have to remind myself, "Look, everyone denies they're a hoarder."
I mean initially.
I think if you'd have talked to me 10 years ago, I wouldn't have told you I was a hoarder.
But everyone on that show, whether they collect human feces or animals, all the way down to what I would call a one or a two, just normal collecting.
They all say, "No, I don't think I'm a hoarder," and they've got rats running around.
And everything down to, just the other day I saw one where she was more my level.
Just everything was clean, but just so much stuff that she couldn't move around.
And they tried to get...
She was very anxious about getting up her stuff, and I felt the same way.
I get it.
I get, I can see other people, I just have to apply it to myself.
So I do like the way they help people, and I do think it's a useful show.
I can understand where some people might think it's not rude, but very strict.
But I don't think it's strict.
I think it's a kind thing, but some people might not understand it, so.
Interviewer:
Are there... I know you've already talked about which items you thought were important.
You mentioned your cookbooks, and how certain items you keep in the basement, you don't use.
Which items do you spend a lot of time with, comparatively?
Participant 46:
Probably my papers.
Interviewer:
Your papers.