Interviewer:
Yes. If you lost one of these things that you thought was important to keep, how would you feel?
I know earlier you mentioned the spice rack, you're still struggling with that.
So let's say one of these papers, if you lost it, what would happen?
Interviewee46:
Well, now you may have something that's very interesting.
So the other day I went to a bag of papers, a small bag, good bag, and I see it was all stuff from the '90s, right?
And so I'm reading it.
I said, "Nita, you need to go through this.
There might be something important."
So I'm actually reading it, and there are stuffs, remember surveys, that are taken that are no longer true anymore.
And believe it or not, I was able to throw that away.
Interviewer:
Oh wow, awesome.
Interviewee46:
Yeah, because I said, "Oh, they've updated this.
This item is no longer true, so I don't need to prove anything.
I can actually get rid of it."
I did find duplicate recipes in that bag, and I was able to get rid of those, because I know I have a set already.
But it was something current, because my living room, my dining room table has about four foot high of newspapers that I'm still going through, that I think has something important in it.
Now here's where the argument came with my ex.
He was home one day and he said, "Oh, I sorted through your papers, and the ones you wanted to keep I kept for you, and the ones you wanted to get rid of," well he doesn't know a hoarder, so he didn't understand I didn't want to get rid of anything, and I went into a fit.
And that's not a good thing, but I can get rid of 1990s stuff, I just can't get rid of yesterday's stuff.
Interviewer:
When you mentioned having a fit, what is that like for you?
Interviewee46:
Oh, I melted down.
I went crazy.
"Don't touch my stuff.
Leave my stuff alone.
You don't know me, you don't need it.
You don't know if I needed it.
You don't know if I wanted it.
If you don't know," you know what I mean?
So that kind of a, "You just leave me alone," and we probably even separated at that time.