Participant 46:
Okay, so I told you I had a friend at work, and we walked to her car.
And I said, "Oh my God," whatever her name is.
I said, "Oh my God, we need to clean your car."
So the next day I told her to pull her car up behind from where we work, and we unloaded her car and we threw...
She could hardly throw things away, but I made the decision for her what to throw away.
And it was easy for me to throw her stuff away, because it was crappy.
And she had a bit of a trauma, but I recognized it right away, when I saw her car.
I said, "Oh."
Here's how it all started.
I needed a ride.
My car had broken down and I needed a ride just across about a half a mile away, and I asked her, "Could you give me a ride?" And she goes, "No, I can't."
And I said, "Oh, you don't have your car?" And she goes, "Oh, I have my car."
I said, "That's okay, I'll make other arrangements.
Maybe my ex will pick me up," and he did.
So there was no problem there, but then when I walked her to her car I saw why she couldn't give a ride.
Her car was stacked full of stuff.
So that's when I made her come back the next day, and all those people who try to make me clear out my stuff, including my ex, I did the same thing to her.
So I can do it to other people, but people can't do it to me.
Interviewer:
Who else has tried to get you to throw away some stuff, aside from your ex.
Participant 46:
Oh, my stepmother.
Interviewer:
Your stepmother.
Participant 46:
My stepmother didn't try, she just threw everything out.
One day I came home from school and everything was thrown away.
Everything except-
Interviewer:
How did that make you feel?
Participant 46:
... my clothes.
Oh my God.
So in the middle of the night, I woke up and I snuck down to the garbage can and retrieved a few of the things I really wanted.
So I couldn't retrieve everything, because then she would figure out I took everything back, right?
But I then had to hide things.
Then I had to hide it from her.
I had to hide it in a special box in my closet.
I'm sure she looked through that, but she didn't...
When she threw it away, she didn't go through it at all.
She just emptied the drawers in the garbage.
She didn't know what was in there.
So when I organized the stuff and put it in a special box she didn't throw that away, because she didn't know it was the stuff she had thrown away, it's just now organized neatly in a box, right?
Interviewer:
Have you-
Participant 46:
So I-
Interviewer:
Sorry.
Oh, sorry.