Interviewer:
Okay. So now that we have that done, again, thank you so much for participating in the research.
So as you know, the study is investigating individual attitudes and beliefs related to having hoarding disorder.
The first question I want to ask you is what term you prefer when we're talking about your difficulties with clutter.
So if you are uncomfortable with calling it hoarding disorder, some people prefer problems with clutter or-
Interviewee47:
Yeah, well I like the word collector.
Interviewer:
Collector.
So would you say problems with collecting or just collecting in general?
Interviewee47:
Well, collecting and keeping.
Interviewer:
Okay, so collecting-
Interviewee47:
I like the word collector rather than hoarder.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So now we're into the second part of the interview where we're just going to have a normal conversation.
First, can you please describe your collecting and how long this has been going on?
Interviewee47:
I think ...
I'm trying to remember when I left home.
I've always collected books, and my dad was a stamp collector and coin collector.
So he started us off on those collections.
I didn't continue with stamps, but I continued with coins.
So I have coins.
I have the president's dollars.
I have Sacajawea.
I've got currency, I've got coins of different types.
They're not too organized, but I have those.
Then my main collection is agates from the beach.
So I have jars with agates and rocks, and some driftwood, and some sand dollars and stuff like that.
So those are the current things that I have.
I don't presently really collect other coins, but people will give me coins because they know I like them.
I do collect agates.
The book thing started as soon as I left home, and I remember my mom, when she had to move me one time, she's like, "Get rid of these books.
You can just get them at the library."
But the books were really ... to me, it felt like it was a safety kind of comfort thing, because books felt like friends to me and I felt like, if I could take them with me from place to place, it was like I was taking a part of me that I couldn't lose with me.
So I have tons of books.
Papers, I write a lot.
I've been to school, so those started accumulating and I didn't get rid of those.
I think it was maybe after I had my son.
I was pretty poor with him.
I was a single parent.
I started just organizing and saving all the bills and organizing them according to alphabetical and all that.
I finally got rid of those.
I just have current, very, very current bills.
I went to paperless on a lot of that.
Interviewer:
Okay.