Participant 48:
Well, that's obviously something that I've been doing since I've been five years old.
I call it gleaning.
I'll keep this, but I'll get rid of this [INAUDIBLE].
Things that don't fit, things that are worn, boxes that are... I really like containers and jars, particularly unusual ones.
But there comes a time when I have too many, and I can't make up a need for them.
There's, I have a really hard time sorting letters.
And cleaning up, I'll come across a letter that my dad wrote me in 1992.
And I'll sit and read it and remember those times.
And that's not something that I want to throw away.
I have a lot of stuff like that.
Interviewer:
Okay, so for you choosing your items comes to, "Okay, so if I keep this, I can get rid of these five things that maybe I don't hold so much of a connection to."
Participant 48:
Right, right.
Interviewer:
Okay.
And thinking about your items, what do you think is the most precious item to you in your house, and what would happen if you lost it?
Participant 48:
My books, my first edition books, valuable books.
And I did lose almost all of them.
Interviewer:
Yeah, you mentioned.
Participant 48:
Ninety percent of them.
And it was traumatic, you know?
The whole event was traumatic.
I mean, like PTSD big time.
And I was in shock for a week.
And the people around me were not nice, not helpful, not nice.
Interviewer:
I imagine that's hard.
Participant 48:
But eventually I came through it, yeah.
Interviewer:
So yeah, your books.
And you would, it would be another traumatic thing if you were to lose them?
Participant 48:
Truly.
There was a time when, as a late adolescent, I was like 20 years old, 19 years old.
Got arrested.
Did something stupid.
My parents decided to leave me in jail, even though they had more than the means...
Posting my bail would not have been any problem at all.
But they decided to leave me in jail because he had, they were exasperated with my behavior.
And I was living in an apartment in another town.
So my dad and my brother went to my apartment, threw away all my stuff, didn't throw away all my stuff, so that I wouldn't lose it, not being able to pay the rent on the apartment, because I was in jail.
I was only in jail for like six weeks or so, but five weeks of that were solitary.
And when I came out and learned of that, I was really distraught and disappointed.
There was a lot going on that was also traumatic and harsh.
The time when the world would definitely bent to, my [INAUDIBLE] to cross.