Interviewer:
All right.
So as you know, this study is investigating individuals' attitudes and beliefs related to having hoarding disorder.
The first question that I want to ask you is what term do you prefer me referencing when we discuss your difficulties with clutter and difficulties with discarding?
Participant 48:
I recognize it as a cognitive impairment.
How about high stimulation environment?
That's [INAUDIBLE].
High stimulation environment, yeah.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So yeah, okay, sounds good.
High stimulation environment.
Participant 48:
Like the least loaded term that I've been able to contrive.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
So since we're kind of naturally moving into the discussion portion of this interview, I'm going to go ahead and transition there.
So I know previously when we were making some lists, you mentioned that you experienced a traumatic brain injury.
Can you please describe your issues with high stimulation environment, and how long has this been going on?
Participant 48:
Before I was seven years old, I'd had five severe head injuries.
I've had a dozen concussions, two grand mal seizures, subdural hematoma, and I broke my neck once.
All my life, up until the last 20 years or so, I've spent my time recovering from the most recent severe traumatic brain injury.
When I was two, I flew out of a car going about 35 miles an hour.
A few months later, I climbed to the top of a trellis in front of the house and leaned back and 15 feet, landed on my head.
I repeatedly awakened in the hospital after more than a half hour unconsciousness.
My record so far is five days.
That was after the two grand mal seizures and the subdural hematoma from an auto accident when I was 17.
I've slipped and landed on my head.
I've had my, wrecks, you know, car accident, motorcycle accident.
I try to pass it off as saying I'm born with a big head and an active childhood, and I never realized that it was particularly strange or notable, because that was my experience.
Looking at it objectively now, I see that throughout that time, I sort of used a lot more focus and attention that I received.
We moved around every three years or so, and I did well in school, so everything else, my comorbidity of ADD, which is a common comorbidity of TBIs, caused a lot of problems for me, but they were looked at as discipline issues rather than clinical, and I was punished all the time.
I was always in trouble.
Interviewer:
Hmm.
I can imagine how traumatic all that has been.
So how long has, kind of go a little more into detail about your issues with the high stimulation environment, and has this been going on since you were a child with your injuries?
Go a little more into detail about that.