Participant 48:
That's a tricky thing, because I think that consciously there's like a lot of activity in this regard, I believe, between my conscious mind and my unconscious mind.
Because right now, I'm comfortable.
I have, my bed is clear.
I have lots of clothes out.
I have lots of things right around me, piles of things, that engage my interest, that entertain me, are high stimulation.
At the same time, there's too much stuff.
And I feel comfortable like subconsciously obviously, because I live here, and this is the way I do all the time.
But when I step away from that, when I make the cognitive awareness of it, that's when I'm embarrassed.
That's when it causes anxiety.
Interviewer:
So would you say that the objects that entertain you are the most important things to you?
Participant 48:
It might be the sentimental things are most important.
Interviewer:
Okay, yeah.
Sentimental things.
Totally get that.
And-
Participant 48:
I've sentiments on all kinds of stuff, you know?
I overdo what's collectible or what I should keep.
Interviewer:
I understand that.
So thinking about-
Participant 48:
INAUDIBLE.
Interviewer:
Your possessions.
What makes them valuable, and how do you determine how valuable an object is or not?
Participant 48:
The books are obviously, at least have been objectively valued.
I have an old first edition Tom Robbins' Jitterbug Perfume that, it's in fine condition, and it sells for about 500 bucks.
I don't know where exactly it is, but I know that I have it.
I have a number of valuable first editions that I recognize as assets.
But at the same time, I would be uncomfortable selling them, because the 500 bucks would disappear in a few weeks.
Whereas, having the book, I'd keep the valuable asset.
I have a lot of clothes.
I end up wearing five percent of my wardrobe.
And more than half is inaccessible.
Or just in areas that I don't, under piles or in piles or in a box or other.
And I have a lot of suits that are worthless.
Clothes you wear that, I don't want to give them away, and I have almost no occasion to ever wear them, but I used to wear suits all the time, five days a week.
And partly the suits remind me of when I would get up every morning, put on a white shirt, grab a tie, put my suit on, and go out in the world.
That kind of thing.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So you would determine how valuable an object is based on it's monetary value or your emotional connection to it.
Like your books, they both have monetary and emotional value for sure.
Participant 48:
Absolutely, yes.
Interviewer:
Okay.
And I know you mentioned that you feel like you have too much stuff.
So if you had to choose between your items, how would you choose?