And so, she just has the perfect attitude.
She's not saying, "What about this?
What about this?
What about this?" I couldn't handle it, like instant decisions.
If I have to put something aside, we put it aside.
But she's just so gentle about that.
I don't feel judged in any way by her.
And I don't know how you could walk in this house and not judge it.
So at some level, she must think, "God, how does she live here?" But she never lets that show.
Interviewer:
Okay.
That's very interesting, because I just know, from the few things I've heard and read and stuff on this research, was just that it's often very hard.
Not many people with this person can trust someone to come in and work with their stuff.
Interviewee49:
Yeah.
I would never be able to ...
My shrink actually has a woman and her helper, so I guess they have their own little company.
And they come in and throw out all sorts of stuff.
And they get rid of the things.
I would not be able to have her people do that.
They just say, "You don't need this.
This is ridiculous."
And I'm not ready to have it handled that way.
[NAME] might say, "Well, are you sure you need it?" That's the strongest she would get.
She would likely not question that, unless ... because I think, maybe, because I'm ready to get rid of a lot when we're working together, too.
I mean, that may be part of it, but I don't just say, "Clean this closet out.
Just empty it.
Get rid of everything in it."
That's what my shrink's service does.
They just get rid of everything in the closet.
And it's like, "No, I want to know at least what's there, why I put it there to begin with."
And so, I would have trouble with like, a crew that came in to clean it up?
No.
Yeah.
They claim if it looks like it's good enough to take to a thrift store, they'll take it to a thrift store.
But I don't want everything that looks good enough to go to a thrift store to go.
I want some of those things.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, that's all the questions that I have for you.
Hold on a second.
I'm just going to stop the recording.
END_OF_RECORDING