And then I said, "Okay, the next thing I want is the kitchen," which is right out the entryway.
That just brings us back to there anyway.
But while she was working on parts of the kitchen, I was out working at a computer station I've set up between the living room and dining room, because I had to move the computer downstairs for a connection problem.
So, while she was doing one area, I could do another.
Sometimes we're both working together.
Sometimes we're working in adjacent rooms.
It's a pretty open downstairs.
It's a townhouse with a reasonably open plan.
And sometimes ... I mean, I'm 69.
I don't think I'm decrepit at all, but I'm not in good shape.
So sometimes I'll just get tired in the afternoon and we've been working all day, and I'll come up and take a nap.
And I know she's fine downstairs.
She's not going to mess with anything.
I totally trust her.
So I'm able to work with her or apart from her.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So, this is kind of just another question, I'm just curious.
You said you don't really let many people in your house, so how did you get to trust her?
Sorry, this is kind of personal, but ...
Interviewee49:
I met her ...
I'm trying to think.
I met her through a friend who had ...
I'm trying to remember this.
A friend of mine had somewhat of a hoarding problem, and wanted to get help, and found [NAME].
That's the helper's name.
Found [NAME] somewhere.
I don't know if she found her on the internet, or through another friend or whatever.
But then I met [NAME], and I was very comfortable with her.
She's kind of a neat person.
And I agreed with her about, let's say, 12 years ago, to work a little bit on my house.
I left that out when I jumped from 2000 to now.
To work a little bit on the house, and then she moved to Georgia.
And now she's back in the area.
So she's been back in the area for three or four years, but it was just this winter that ...
It was right after I fell, really, that I finally said, "This is ridiculous.
I've got to get [NAME] back."
I didn't want to spend the money, is part of it.
And I thought, "You have to do this, money or no money."
And I was so relieved that she would come back, and her attitude, she's very non-judgmental.
Her mother's somewhat of a hoarder, and her whole ... and she has other family members who have some mental health issues.
Her attitude is sort of, "People need help.
I can help them."