Interviewer:
Yeah. So these articles that you said you read, were they scientific papers, or were they kind of like an CNN article or New York Times kind of article?
Participant 49:
They're probably more New York Times.
Every now and then, they might be something from a journal.
The article my therapist gave me was from some journal.
And so, if I get a reference to a journal article, I'd rather read that, or New York Times that I trust more than ...
Psychology Today is like pop kind of stuff.
I don't really pay as much attention to that as I would to the Times.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So, when you hear the words "hoarding disorder," what do you think about?
Participant 49:
I think about my house.
I think about uncontrolled obtaining and collecting a unmanageable amount of things.
A total mess.
And I think it's very sad.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So, that question kind of leads into our next section, which is going to be discussing distress and interference.
And so, you mentioned that you find hoarding disorder sad.
Does your behavior upset you at all, or does it get in the way of your daily life very often?
Participant 49:
My house really does upset me.
Not to the point where ... especially because like I said, I have started and really accomplished quite a bit in six weeks, but it took me four years to call this person to help me, so I get upset.
And what I ended up doing was really, I would go upstairs and sit in my front room where the computer was, or I'd sit on the bed in my bedroom, which I can only sit on half the bed because there's a pile of stuff on the other half of the bed.
So I just sort of shut away into these little spaces, and read or knit or whatever, or work on the computer or play games on the computer, and just ignore it all, avoid it all.
So again, I can't remember exactly if I'm answering what you're looking for.
Interviewer:
Yeah, so would you say there was ever a time that your hoarding got in the way of something that you really wanted?
Participant 49:
Yeah.
It gets in the way of me doing the needlepoint.
The biggest thing, the biggest activity I want to do at home, that I cannot do right now, is my needlepoint and frames, because I don't have a good place to sit with my frame and my yarns and whatnot, and a stand for the frame, which would make it easier, which I have in a box.
Of course, not opened yet.