All of my dishes, I didn't buy china.
I bought pottery, like pottery tumblers instead of glasses.
And I forgot I had a lot of CDs.
I got rid of almost all of the 33s years ago, maybe 15 years ago.
But I have a lot of CDs and DVDs that ...
None of this, realistically, can I live long enough to use or read or watch or listen to, but they're hard to let go.
I could read some of that stuff.
Interviewer:
How do you decide when it's time to get rid of something?
How do you know?
And what do you discard when it's time?
Participant 49:
How do I know?
Interviewer:
Sorry?
Participant 49:
Well, what happens now is, now that I've started cleaning up, I did once it before, and it stopped and got much worse, kind of like losing weight goes.
But now that I've started again, it's much easier.
Because one of the good things for me is the pleasure of having somebody else using it and enjoying it.
Like I have some DVDs, for example, that I haven't even taken the cellophane or whatever it's called, the plastic wrap, off of.
And my thought is, if somebody can't afford something, and they can get that at a thrift shop, that's neat that they can have something that's brand new that nobody's used.
Or with clothing, sometimes I have clothing ... I had the bariatric surgery I mentioned in about 2001.
I didn't have many clothes before that, and now I have a lot more clothes.
And I can give clothes away, again thinking, some things still have a label on them, a price label.
And I keep thinking, "Won't that be neat, that somebody who can't afford something new can get something brand new?
It's obvious it hasn't been worn."
So that helps me give stuff away.
Is that the kind of thing you were asking?
Interviewer:
Kind of.
But how do you know when it's time to actually give those things away?
Participant 49:
When it's time to?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Participant 49:
Well, it's when I do like what I'm doing now.
My friend, because of this whole coronavirus thing, can't come down because we're in lockdown, but when I work with her, each time I work, I can more quickly and easily give stuff away.
So, time to give away in that sense is not, "This thing is old," it's just that, "You know what?
I got to clean up this house.
I have too much stuff, and this can go.
Take this."
You know?
It's more of an attitude that it's time to give things away, when I can get in the right frame of mind.