And then, when I was about 35, I bought a townhouse, and for the first few years, that could be cleaned up for company, and multiple uses. When I was about ... It started getting much worse when I was probably about 50, maybe 45. I guess we could say 45, it started getting worse, because I started having more income, for one thing.
And so, it just gradually got worse, so that at one point, in about 2001, I had bariatric surgery, and a bunch of my friends came in and helped me get my house set up so that I could be home for a month from the surgery, and use my kitchen and whatnot. And that was the first time I'd ever had anybody help me with it.
Interviewer:
Okay. So it kind of sounds like it's been going on your whole life, but it was maybe more manageable when you were younger?
Participant 49:
Yeah, it's been going on my whole life, but it's been much worse as the years progress. So it's worse since the surgery, to the point where now, we'll jump from 2000 to now, there's literally ... Well, except that I've been working on it, which I'll get to in a second. There's trails through the house.
You could really not get in the front door very easily. You had to know what to climb over, and follow the little trails of the steps upstairs, and my chair was filled with stuff. I couldn't use my living room. I couldn't even ... Six weeks ago, I couldn't even get into the kitchen. There was a bunch of stuff piled in front of the door to the entrance.
So it's been very, very restricted for, I'd say, the last four years. I don't think I've used the kitchen for four years. I couldn't use the living room. I used an office and the bedroom, and those two had little trails through them. You can't see much floor.
Six weeks ago, I did have a friend, who I employed once a week to come in and help me, so now I can get in the kitchen. And I'm in the process of cleaning out the refrigerator. In fact, I emptied it. I decided just to totally throw out everything that was in it. After four years, what would you want to keep? 
And it's almost totally cleaned out, so I'm ready to go buy some food and fill it up. So I'm ready to use the kitchen now, so that's progress. And I can use part of the living room, and then I come up to my little pathway through the bedroom and stay up here.
Interviewer:
Have you ever sought professional help for this behavior?