Participant 49:
I've been to a shrink since I was ... since '90.
Since I was 40.
Continually, since I was 40, for depression help.
And we've talked about the house.
She sent me to a cognitive person that tried to help me with the house.
Didn't get very far.
And I'm still going to the shrink, or another person that I've seen in conjunction with her for the last 30 years.
And we're still working on that.
So yes, I have.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So, you found your shrink through ... when you were seeking treatment for depression?
Participant 49:
Yeah.
Interviewer:
Okay.
And how do your family and friends feel about your behavior?
Do you get in conflicts with them, or do they not know?
Participant 49:
My friends will know that nobody can come in.
My friends are very supportive, and have often offered to help, and they're good enough friends that they accept me for what I am.
My family, it's funny.
When I was 20 and had my apartment and it was messy, my dad come to visit once and he said, "You're going to have to do something about this," which is the first time he'd ever said anything about my room or where I lived or anything.
And that's all he said, since he knew how much stuff I had in there.
But he's been gone since like a year after that.
And I don't have conflicts with people because they don't come here, so it's not like ...
You read about hoarders whose children come home and have trouble coming home.
Well, I don't have any children, so nobody needs to live here.
Nobody has to be here but me.
So there's nobody to have conflicts with.
Interviewer:
Okay.
All right.
Okay, so for this next section, we're going to talk about space and living area, which you covered a little bit already.
And so, you live alone, and so you already described that you've cleaned up the kitchen a little bit.
What do your other spaces look like?
Are they mostly boxes, or is it piles of paper?
Participant 49:
Well, before I started working on the house like six weeks ago, it was just stacks and piles of ... not always necessarily neat stacks, of boxes, or some kind of storage organizational thing, a bin or something full of stuff.
So right now, the kitchen is a lot cleaned up, with plenty of floor space on it.
You can actually walk around the kitchen.