Participant 49:
Kind of like what people are not getting a handle on with this coronavirus.
They don't understand.
People don't understand exponential growth, so they're like, "My God, there's triple the cases there were yesterday and there's triple again tomorrow."
Well, hoarding is like exponential growth, not linear.
Interviewer:
Okay.
So, how would you be able to tell if someone had hoarding disorder without being in their home?
Participant 49:
I don't know if you would, unless except for ... I was the head of a math department, and my desk would be full of stacks of books and papers.
So, one might think I was just an organizational mess, and one might look at it and go, "Hm.
She hoards books and papers."
I don't know how you would ...
Yeah, not like you can look at somebody and say, "Oh, yeah.
That's a hoarder."
Interviewer:
Okay.
So maybe like an office space would be a way to tell, but not necessarily.
Participant 49:
Exactly.
It might be, and it might be well-hidden if you can keep your office space neat.
Or it might be that somebody has no idea what they're looking at.
They may just think you're a mess.
You know?
Interviewer:
Yeah.
Okay.
Participant 49:
Which I am.
Interviewer:
So, where do you get most of your information about hoarding disorder?
Where have you heard of it?
Participant 49:
I've talked to the therapist and shrink I see.
I've read some articles on the internet, and the therapist gave me an article that was really interesting.
I wish I had it or I could tell you what it was.
But she had ...
You know how they have to take all these little credit things or whatever, to keep up their licenses?
She had taken something about hoarding, and she gave me a copy of the article that she had to read.
It was like reading a story about me.
It was just on the mark, and she said, "Well, that's why I gave it to you."
That's when I realized I'm not the only hoarder in the world, because there must be enough people to have written an article about.
Because you feel like you're the only mess, because you don't go into houses of hoarders very often.
They don't let you in.
So you go into houses of non-hoarders, and you don't know why the houses you don't go in, you're not allowed in or not invited in or something.
You just don't go in them, so you don't see other people's hoarding may be as ... like I have no idea on statistics.
As much as I read number stuff all the time, I have no idea how many people we think are hoarders in the population or anything like that.
I think there are more as they get older, but I don't know.