Interviewee50:
And it was just an expensive thing to have, even though I honestly think that someone like myself could get or should be able to get an animal as a support thing because of the fact that when you're totally by yourself, it's nice to have somebody to at least or feel like there's somebody in your house.
Interviewer:
Definitely.
I totally understand that.
When you think about your apartment, what would you like it to look like?
What would your ideal home or apartment looked like?
Would there still be stuff in it?
Interviewee50:
Say that again?
Interviewer:
Would your stuff still be in it only more organized?
What would it look like?
Interviewee50:
It would totally be different.
It would be more probably minimalistic in a sense.
I like a lot of the cottage stuff, so it'd have a little bit of a plan of collection type thing.
But just every place with things would not be here that did not have a place.
And then I think that it would be tidier because sometimes I was trying to explain to my counselor that there are certain things from my childhood or my past that it's hard to throw away because it's sort of like if you did, no one would know you existed.
Although if you were to pass away, there's this great book called the Art of Swedish Death Cleaning where basically you clean up everything so your family doesn't have to.
So even if I kept it, when they came into the apartment, it would still end up in a big garbage bag anyway.
So it's that emotional like but if I don't have any children there's really nothing to bookmark me into this world anyway.
Interviewee50:
So it would look like a minimalistic cottage type thing.
I wouldn't have gone with the dark furniture.
I like things a lot lighter.
I probably would have found an apartment with a lot more natural light, because it's very dark in here.
And one of the things that I think I am deeply affected by is during the winter when it gets dark it's even harder for me to try to even begin to tackle anything.
All I want to do is come home and hibernate.
Interviewer:
Yeah.
I understand how much it can affect your mood.
So it sounds like your space would be quite different, ideally you would like it to be minimalist.
You'd like it to still have like a kind of sense of a person having a sense of taste and a collection, but mostly empty and kind of light and airy and lots of space.
Does that sound right?
Interviewee50:
Yeah, because I would like to go back to entertainment.
Interviewer:
That makes sense.
So do you feel like the items that you hang on to, the items in your home, do they contribute to making you feel at home in your space?