Interviewer:
That seems like it goes back to what you mentioned earlier in terms of feeling like you save stuff because of almost ambition.
It sounds like that same kind of behavior.
You have the ambition of making everything perfect, and then when you can't get it done, it just sits around.
Does that sound right?
Participant 50:
Okay.
Interviewer:
I mean, I'm just trying to repeat back to you.
I'm not, I'm trying to-
Participant 50:
No, no, sometimes you don't hear what you're saying.
So you just have to go, "Okay, well maybe that's what I did say."
Interviewer:
No, the reason I'm repeating it back is to make sure that I'm understanding.
So please feel free to correct me if that doesn't sound right.
Now I'd like to hear a little bit about your stuff and your space.
So if you could just tell me a little bit about what your apartment is like for you.
And what the space is like and also the kinds of things that you tend to hang on to and how they are situated in your space right now.
Participant 50:
Well, my condo was 1386 as far as square feet.
Now I live in apartment that's less than 700 square feet.
So I had big furniture that is too small, really for the space.
And then when my grandmother died, I got some of her antiques and they're really not me anymore, but this is going to sound funny, but just out of fear of her raising out of the dead, Some of them I'm almost fearful to get rid of but also cost-wise, I couldn't afford to redo anything or anything like that.
But it's mostly clothes.
And then it's mostly things that are part of good intentions in the sense that this is how I want my space to look like or I have an idea.
And so when I get around to it, I want this to happen.
And so, I have a curate that's in a box because I have found that I like this particular curate coffee more than I usually liked the six bucks cup of coffee at Starbucks, but I'm yet to set it up.
Participant 50:
And then I have just outfits from all different kinds of sizes and things that I will undo a pile or whatever.
And then I told her that I thought that, and then I got into a swing of going to Goodwill because it was cheap so I really wasn't spending that much money as opposed to but I have shopped for that a little bit just say you know, do I really need it.
And trying to stop it to the sense that I really have enough.
And so it's just mostly filled with clothes and items like that.
Interviewer:
Are they in boxes or are they out?
Participant 50:
Most of it's out.