Participant 50:
Yeah. Yes. And then also I think it has something the more I read about it as stuff like that.
And I think it's true.
Because when I do want to clean, I want to clean.
I want to move everything out in the baseboards, clean the thing and then start putting things back and throwing things away.
So I think there's also a perfectionist.
Well, for me personally, a perfectionist thing that's going on too.
Where it's like, I'm not going to do it unless I have the time to do it right.
I have to get a burr up my butt to get that particular thing.
And also the time available.
And that takes that's a blindness too, in the sense that you could do little things, but you want to tackle the whole thing because I think it becomes painful.
And so a little bit, isn't going to it's only going to put a scab on the wound, it's not going to heal the wound.
Interviewer:
That totally makes sense.
Participant 50:
And so you don't see that as something that I feel like a normal person would be able to see, but I can't.
Interviewer:
So it's like, you don't just want to throw out one thing, you want to make the whole apartment perfect.
And you also can't see that that's hard to find time to do.
So it ends up not having anything be done as opposed to just a little bit at your time.
Participant 50:
Right.
Interviewer:
So do you think that there's a way of telling that somebody has hoarding problems without going and seeing their space?
Do you think if you met somebody who had these problems and you didn't see what their house looked like and they didn't tell you, you would notice this behavior?
Participant 50:
I think that you would have a sort of clue about me in the sense that I can live with a lot of stuff around me at work.
So, if they passed that about my desk.
Sometimes to them, it just looks like a bunch of stuff.
But to me it looks like, I had to drop this because someone came and got me for the kitchen overflowing and then I had to stop this where I was going to put that back.
But then you asked me where there was more paper or there was somebody at the door.
So for me, I am willing to drop what I'm doing to take care of you, where someone else that has the ability to say, "Well, I need to finish this first."
But I have a tendency to drop what I'm doing to take care of what's in front of me.
Because I see there's a payoff in the sense that it makes me feel good to go to other people's rescue, but I can't do the same thing for myself.