Interviewer:
And then we have after we do a couple of lists, we'll just get into the more kind of conversational part of the interview where I'll just ask you questions and we'll talk like normal people.
Okay?
Interviewee50:
Okay.
Interviewer:
Awesome.
Well, thank you for doing those lists with me now, we're going to get into the more kind of fun part of our interview.
So just to begin with, I would like to start by having you kind of describe your problems with hoarding.
What they're like for you, when they began and how it's kind of changed over time.
Interviewee50:
My problems with hoarding.
First I think that it's always, maybe has been there.
I grew up with my grandmother who was a depression person and didn't throw away anything.
So I was used to a lot of stuff.
The temperaments to that is not recognizing as a form of hoarding is that my mother worked from, I guess she basically stayed home and she cleaned up after all of us so we never felt the weight or because everything was always cleared or put away.
Either no matter how the day started out, by the time we got home from school or my grandmother got home for work, my mother had put everything to right.
And we never felt the first effect of it.
When I got to college, my first roommate I didn't spend much time there.
And then the second roommate, she and I almost shared some of the same things in the sense that our room would be cluttered and everything like that.
Interviewee50:
But it was sort of like, I don't know, we were able to live with each other because it was sort of organized but it was not like we didn't know where anything was.
And then as I got to be an adult, I pretty much came back home.
And so my mom took back over.
It's only when I started living by myself, I think and it just progressively got worse.
The more I think loneliness or the fact that I couldn't trust people, that it was sort of like almost a behavior that kept me isolated, before I even knew how badly I was isolated, if that makes sense.
It was something that stuck on gradually.
And then accumulating things was my way of self-medicating.
Also, I think my self-esteem was sort of low because I've always been sort of overweight and when put forth with other ladies is I went through a system where we would have to go to a lot of parties and meetings and everybody dressed so wonderfully because basically you were dressing for other women.