Interviewee:
Um, you know, it'll go back to, it'll go back to yarn.
I'll say that I'm going to make such and such.
I have the perfect yarn to make such and such for my mother for her birthday.
And, I know I’ve got the yarn, and I can see it, and I remember buying it.
But I cannot find it anywhere.
And it's because I stuck it in a tote bag and threw the tote bag in a corner.
And I may come up with it six months later when I come across the tote bag.
But then I have to go and either buy— I have to go buy more yarn, for this whatever I was going to make.
And so yeah, I mean that that happens.
Not so— like I said, since I've organized not so much anymore.
But, but, yes, it definitely would stop me from doing something.
Or I bought tickets to something and I can’t find the tickets.
Because… I mean right now I can't find my wallet.
I don't carry a wallet; I carry my driver's license and a credit card, um, in a phone case.
But I have a wallet that has, you know, like some gift cards in it and things like that.
Have no clue where it is.
I've looked what I thought was everywhere that I could’ve put it, but I don't have any idea where it is.
So, if I wanted to use those gift cards, I don't even know where they are.
Interviewer: Right.
So, it does get in the way of certain aspects of daily life then?
Interviewee:
yes.
Interviewer: Okay.
And, I know you were talking a little bit earlier with me about how it's upset your husband in the past, but I heard you mention that you had kids.
Did it ever impact any sort of relationship with your kids, or any sort of situation?
Maybe they wanted to have friends over and something like that, or no?
Interviewee:
No, not really.
Um, it’s interesting because my oldest daughter, um, keeps it extremely clean.
Now, she does have a tendency to, you know, get kind of messy.
But she keeps a very neat apartment.
And my youngest daughter— and both of them, you know, are minimalists.
I mean my youngest daughter, literally right now, she and her partner are living in Airbnb’s one month at a time.
Because right now it's cheaper than an apartment, and they don't know where they want to live.
But they are literally living with their clothes in a suitcase.
Interviewer: Wow, okay.