Interviewer: Okay, so what do they look like?
Can you describe the cluttered areas for me?
Interviewee:
Yeah, so, um, like in my bedroom, I have got, um, right now there's a pile in front of one of the closet doors that includes a green trash bag that I've been throwing clothes in to donate.
And it just, it stays there.
And, I should have donated it ages ago, but it's still there.
There's also one that has shoes in it for the same reason.
Um, I think there's a ruck tote under there, and an old computer bag, and just stuff.
And I don't need to have it, but I don't have the motivation to get in there and get rid of it.
My floors are, um, in my, my bedroom, are overflowing.
Because I have more t-shirts or tops then I probably need, but I haven't gotten rid of them.
I have mismatched socks, like single socks, that— why am I keeping this one sock?
I don't know, I guess maybe I'm figuring that the other one’s gonna show up someday.
But, you know, obviously it's not.
Um, so my bedroom is you know, it's kind of a wreck.
But, it's not like I can't walk in there, or I have to, you know, move things off the bed to go to sleep at night.
It's not like that.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee:
It's just not, it doesn't look like, you know, a magazine house.
Interviewer: Okay, so—
Interviewee:
It definitely looks lived in.
And even the crap room, you know.
I mean, I've got a couple of spinning wheels in there, and some other things that isn't clutter, but all of the accessories, and the fiber, and all of that is just, you know, it’s in bins on the floor.
And, and I just, I'm not going to get rid of that.
That stuff I'm not going to get rid of, it's kind of my sanity.
But I haven't figured out a way to score it yet that doesn't require it to be in clear totes stacked up against the wall.
Interviewer: So, are there any areas of the house, or maybe like appliances, that you can't use because of the clutter?
Interviewee:
No. Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee:
You know, like actually there's not.
You know, I mean, we store stuff in the oven, but you can pull that stuff out, you know.
It's like pots or pans or whatever.
It's all oven-type stuff that’s stored in the oven.
Because I live in a very small house.
That’s part of the problem is that the house is small.
The closet space is at a premium.
And, if I were a minimalist, I could probably live here just fine, but I'm not.
Interviewer: Right.
So—