Participant:
It's not like it's a fire— you know, I don't look at anything in my house that would be a fire hazard, or a way that I wasn't able to get out in an emergency.
I'm not going to trip over stuff.
It's not like that.
It's just, you know, too much stuff in too small of a space.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, what would you say is the most cluttered area of your house?
Participant:
So, the one that causes me the most stress would be my bedroom.
But the most cluttered space in my house is probably my craft room.
And I don't have, like I said, I don't have a very big house.
It's got, you know, two small bedrooms and a master.
Um, a living room, no dining room, an eat-in kitchen, and that's it.
Interviewer: Okay.
Participant:
So, I would have to probably say the craft room would be the most cluttered.
Um, there have been times in that craft room when there was no floor space to work, to walk.
Interviewer: Gotcha.
And—
Participant:
And I have remedied that, and my intent is to keep it that way.
Interviewer: And is there any sort of organization to the clutter?
Or is it just kind of, you know, things stacked on top of each other, stuff on the floor.
Participant:
Kind of both.
Interviewer: Okay.
Participant:
Kind of both.
I mean, there is some, there is some organization to it, because I do have, like I said, I have bins.
I have a bin with yarn in it.
I have a bin with fiber in it, and those things like that.
And then, there are other things that I'm still like looking at going, what do I do with this?
You know, do I get rid of it?
Do I keep it?
Do I give it away?
You know, it's old electronics, you know.
But you just hate, I hate to throw things into a landfill.
Interviewer: Right.
Participant:
So, and then that’s another issue that I have.
You know, I've got old electronics, and they should be being recycled, and— yeah.
I mean, it's, it's stuff like that.
But, you know, again, as I'm cleaning, those things are in a disorganized pile.
They may be sitting in a pile in front of a, you know, in front of the bookcase, because I throw them all there because I don’t know what to do with them.
And now I have to get back into it and start figuring out what do I do with it.
Interviewer: How often do you, would you say that you, go through your things in an attempt to throw things away?