Interviewer (41:15): Yeah, absolutely. So, when it comes to people that have, you know, like issues with clutter, like you have identified with yourself. Do you think that there's any way to tell that someone has clutter issues without actually seeing their space? I know you mentioned earlier that maybe they're a bit reclusive more so than usual, but is there anything else that you might notice in someone?
Participant:
Yeah, somebody who can never find what they're looking for.
Interviewer (41:41): Okay. So, you know, disorganized in their thoughts.
Participant:
Yeah. I mean, you know, in my job, in my day to day job, I have to be organized. I mean, it's just, it's a requirement of my job. But if somebody said to me, hey, don't forget you were going to lend me XYZ. I would have to really stop and think, where would I start looking for this in my house? And so, and in some cases, I've had to say you know I, I know I bought this, but I don't have any idea where I put it.
Interviewer (42:26): Right.
Interviewer (42:27): And most of the time, some of the times you can write that off to be, you know, of a certain age and your memory starts to crap out on you. And I'm kind of at that certain age. But, in a lot of cases it's because I didn't put it where it should be, whatever that should be is. Like you know, hey, you have to pay your driver's license tags. Where's the paperwork? Well hell, I don't know. You know, and then I start rifling through stacks of bank statements and other kinds of things that I probably should just shred and get rid of, because it should be— it's all electronic anyways. Why am I keeping those? But that would be a way for me to know without actually seeing somebody’s space, is somebody who can never find what they're looking for.
Interviewer (43:28): Gotcha. Okay, so, um, is there any like time in your life where your problems with clutter maybe got in the way of something that you wanted to do, or something that you had planned to do? Anything like that?
Participant:
Oh yeah, when I can't find something that I need.
Interviewer (43:46): Okay. Is there any particular instance where that happened that you can remember?