Interviewee:
Yeah, it makes him crazy.
He was brought up in a household where, you know, his mother was at home, and she had a cleaning schedule, and everything had its place, and it was always cleaned up.
You know, alternately, I grew up in a household where both my parents worked, and even as a child I was expected to do things like cook dinner and do the grocery shopping and whatever, by the time I was 12 or 13 years old.
And so, there wasn't ever really a lot of time to do that sort of, very orderly cleaning and, and I've always worked, and I know that my husband tries to keep his areas in the house neat and organized.
And it makes him, it makes him just nutty that I can't.
And, you know, for that reason, I don't like to have people come to my house.
But he doesn't want people to come to the house either.
I need some work done in the house.
And in order to get work men to come in, you know, his first response is, there is nobody coming in here until we get this mess cleaned up.
Interviewer: So, does he try to help you clean things up when you guys are having someone over?
Interviewee:
No. Because 90% of the issue, at least the issue that he believes, is that it’s me, and it's my stuff.
And given the opportunity, he would just take a green plastic trash bag and then just start like, throwing things away.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee:
Just throwing it away, without ever any thought of it.
And, I just have, I have a really hard time doing that.
I mean, I have things like, you know, letters that were sent to me when I was in high school.
And now I’ve been out of high school like 45 years.
But I don't want to give those things up.
But I should, I don't ever look at them.
They're just there.
Interviewer: So, has that ever happened?
That scenario where he just started throwing things away.
Interviewee:
Oh, he has thrown things away, and then when I go on to get whatever it was— in fact, the one thing I can remember was I had, when my kids were young, I had a big bag of cookie cutters.
A big bag.
And, of course, I didn't bake cookies on a regular basis, but of course, you would do it at Christmas time or whatever.
And, one year I went to get those cookie cutters, and I could not find them anywhere.
And I said something about it, and he says, “Oh, I threw those away ages ago.
You never use them.”
Makes me crazy.
Interviewer: Right.
Interviewee:
Makes me crazy, because what he throws away or gives things away like that, my first response is well, I just need to go out and buy more.