Interviewer: Okay. So, when information about, you know, hoarding disorder, how would you say that its similar or different from your own disorder?
Interviewee:
Okay so, from a— the reason I don't like the word hoarding is, although I have used it on myself in the past, um, but part of the reason I don't like that word is because it indicates— it's gotten an indication through, you know, for better or for worse— through you know, through television programs or whatever.
That, um, you know, it's somebody who has you know, 14 cats and the house is condemnable.
And, you know, and when I look at my house, my house is just a mess.
It's just cluttered.
It's not falling apart around me.
If I needed to sell it tomorrow, I probably could do that.
And, you know, it's not— my neighbors don't see you know, things piled up on my deck or, you know, outside my fence.
You know, it's all presentable.
It's just more than I need.
Interviewer: Right.
So, your own clutter—
Interviewee:
And it stresses me out.
Interviewer: Right.
Your own clutter then is definitely less severe than what you would associate with, you know, hoarding disorder.
Right?
Interviewee:
Though that’s not to say that I don't have those tendencies.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, maybe there are some similarities but definitely—
Interviewee:
I do recognize me.
So, I mean, I do recognize myself in those things when, when I see, you know, people interviewed.
And I don't watch those shows, to be perfectly honest.
I've never seen them other than to have them show up, like in a commercial on one of the channels.
Um, and you think, oh my god, you know.
What's underneath all of that stuff?
And there must be bugs, and this and that.
And mine isn't like that.
But, when they talk about their things, I did try watching some of that, um, Marie Kondo.
Um, Tidy up.
And I have the book that I bought before she was on Netflix.
I had this book for a long time, because I recognize that I would like to have a different type of lifestyle.
Um, but… And I've watched those things.
But when she interviews people, like when they're throwing away things out of their closets and they’re just really distressed about it, I feel that in my core.
I mean I just know.
I know how they feel.
Interviewer: Mhmm.
So, you can definitely relate to the distress that they feel when they're trying to, you know, clear up a little bit.
Interviewee:
Yes, and it breaks my heart because I'm in the same place.
Like I want to be the person who gets their stuff cleaned up.