Interviewee:
After a fashion, actually, it’s interesting that you’re asking that question actually.
Our daughter, who is staying with us because of the COVID right after college, went about clearing up a couple of drawers within the last month.
I was surprised to see how many broken and unused kitchen tools were in those drawers.
And after she organized that, we got rid of quite a bit of stuff.
She recently did the same thing in the spice cabinet near the stove as well.
And I think both my wife and I didn’t experience discomfort at that, but it was a pleasure to see somebody who didn’t have a disorganized mind, and [inaudible; ] a part of the kitchen.
Interviewer: Right.
So, she was mostly getting rid of kitchen appliances, and old spices, and things like that?
Interviewee:
Yes.
Interviewer: Okay, so, is it easier for you, in your opinion, to get rid of things kind of when there’s someone else spearheading the effort or is it easier when you’re in charge of what’s to get rid of.
Interviewee:
I think being accompanied by someone who is not emotionally attached to the stuff can say, “here’s six corkscrews, pick the one’s you want to keep.”
Interviewer: Right, okay.
So, now we’re going to talk a little bit about the value of the things you keep.
So, when you think about your possessions, what do you think makes them valuable?
Interviewee:
What do I think makes them valuable?
Um, most of the things that are retained, I have some associated event or memory with them.
Like in the office, I’ve got legal books from my father that I haven’t opened in 20 or 25 years here, but I can’t imagine anyone else having any use for them and I’m uncomfortable with the idea of putting them in the recycling bin.
So, [INAUDIBLE] his old law dictionary and reference manuals from his practice and arguably my practice, but stuff that I’m actually using digital resources instead of the item because of physical [INAUDIBLE] of some kind that I would rather give to a relative to have instead of the recycling bin.
Interviewer: Right, so something being sentimental is important whether you decide to keep anything or not?
Interviewee:
It is, yes.
Interviewer: Okay, and I actually want to ask a little bit about your office space too.
I forgot earlier to ask, but what does your office space look like?
I know you said earlier that there was like filing cabinets and paper, but can you go into a little bit more detail?
Interviewee:
Since I’m in semi-retirement now it’s in some ways kind of a museum of hits and misses.
Triumphant outcomes and catastrophes.
Records of some kinds of events being used as templates for ongoing efforts and other things that are 20-years not referred to and an outsider would have a hard time understanding why.