Interviewer: Okay, so moving off of that, in terms of, you know, the people you're meeting at these events, and also, I know you said that your niece and some other family members definitely have some issues with hoarding as well, do you think there's any way to tell if a person has problems with hoarding without going into their home or without seeing their stuff?
Interviewee:
Um, well, I can give you an example of my stuff.
Interviewer: Okay.
Interviewee:
Um, my sister and I went down to Hard Rock, to play hard rock.
Well, when we came out either one of us looked at the car.
We looked at it, but when I went to crank my car it wouldn’t crank.
Someone had jacked up my car on one side, took the entire assembly off the tire— the RAM, everything, okay?
We went to call the police and I was so embarrassed because we had to get in the trunk.
I probably had stuff in the trunk that had been there… eh, I’d say maybe two years.
And, uh, the police dogs, they had to go get that little spare tire for me right into that, and they said, “Well, this looks like you’re a hoarder.”
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: So, for you, you could definitely maybe catch on that someone else might have problems with hoarding if they were maybe embarrassed?
Interviewee:
Oh yeah.
I used to see a lot of it when I worked for [name of fast food restaurant; ] because people would come up through the drive thru.
And, all they have a place to sit in a car was in the driver's seat.
Tons of stuff, tons of stuff.
Interviewer: Right.
Did you ever notice that, you know, the people that you realized had problems with hoarding, did they ever share like, similar personality traits that you also see in yourself?
Interviewee:
Yeah, I do.
And I use my niece and my sister and I all for example.
I use them for an example, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Uh, you know, my niece likes to do that too, but I have to be very selective now, because with Judy in my house now, uh, I’ve gone basically to my bedroom where all my crap is.
So, um, I have to be a little bit more careful with that.
I don’t know where I was going with that, but anyways…
Interviewer: Oh no, no worries.
Okay, so, then just a couple more questions and then afterwards, I'm going to ask you, just some basic demographic questions for your study.
But um, to finish up here, because I know you said that you were in a bit of a rush—
Interviewee:
I do apologize for that.