Participant:
Well, my sister was living with me, okay?
And you're taking two women, and we, between the two, we had four bath– four bedrooms, and, uh, three bathrooms, okay?
But she lived in one with me.
She would live in mine because I had another ahead of the bedroom in a spare bathroom for her.
But, she, she is INAUDIBLE… what is that word?
Uh, INAUDIBLE?
OCD?
Interviewer : OCD, yep.
Participant:
Honey, my sister is OCD.
She drives me crazy.
Interviewer : Gotcha.
Participant:
Yeah, yeah.
Interviewer : So, she's kind of a polar opposite from you in terms of keeping stuff.
Is that what I'm hearing?
Participant:
Well, let’s put it this way.
She buys things and keep them maybe six, nine months, and gets rid of them.
Interviewer : Right, yeah.
So, for her it's not a problem at all to get rid of stuff.
But for you, it's a little bit more difficult.
Participant:
It is, and she wants me constantly to get rid of things.
Interviewer : Okay, so I would imagine that that's definitely caused some tension between you and her.
Participant:
Oh, it does.
Interviewer : Can you touch on that a little bit for me?
Participant:
What?
Interviewer : Can you touch on that a little bit?
Participant:
Um, well she’s always saying, “You need to get rid of some of this shit.
You need to get this gone.
This is ridiculous.”
Uh, Sunday she went out in my living room and spent four hours taking everything out, and every fifteen minutes she called me up to go, “See how good this looks?
See how good this looks?” You know?
Just, I, I wanted to leave the house.
Interviewer : Right, right.
Participant:
And she stressed me so bad.
Interviewer : Okay, so, it definitely stresses you out to, you know, the idea of getting rid of things.
But, um, how severely do you react when someone tries to get rid of your stuff, or when you try yourself to get rid of things?
Participant:
Uh, I get angry and I have to INAUDIBLE.
Interviewer : Okay.
And what about the process of getting rid of stuff makes you upset?
Participant:
I’m sorry, what’d you just say?
Interviewer : I said, what about the process of getting rid of stuff, or someone else trying to get rid of that stuff, makes you so upset?
What's going through your mind at that point?
Participant:
Well, it's just like, I don’t understand.
After my second marriage, I had to give everything back because my husband wanted me to get rid of everything.
So, really I think most of this started when I was with my second husband because he didn't let me bring anything to the house.
It wasn’t even as if it was my house, it was his house.
So, it just, I just bombarded it into mine, mine, mine.
Yeah.