Interviewee:
Uh, in, in a storage building.
Interviewer: Gotcha.
And so, now you have your own space from what I understand.
So, have those things since been removed from the storage?
Do you have a storage unit anymore?
Interviewee:
Oh yes I do.
Yeah.
Interviewer: Okay, so what kinds of things do you keep in your storage?
Interviewee:
Well um, right now, right now my storage is half used by my sister because she used to collect M&Ms and now she's on this beat., um, I want to get rid of every single one of them.
So, she's probably got about ten boxes of um, M&M stuff in there.
I have— oh, I love these, which I don’t buy these for Christmas because I have the houses, you know?
Like um, uh, a mansion, different things like that.
I never really looked into finding the ones that were like, businesses, like the bakery, the toy house.
I have the little cottages, things like that.
So, uh, I have a lot of that.
Nut that’s all in storage because I have nowhere else to put it.
Interviewer: So, Christmas decorations and that sort of thing?
Interviewee:
Yeah, yeah.
Christmas-y stuff.
Interviewer: Okay, so, in terms of the things that, you know, you have in your storage and that you have in your house, what would happen if, you know one day you were to wake up and all of it was gone?
Would you be relieved, or would you be, you know, upset and frustrated about it?
Interviewee:
Well, you know what, I, I pray to God about that.
I know that none of this is worth a thing.
But it costs a lot, I know that.
Interviewer: Right.
So, you know in the, in the case where you might lose it or anything like that, you would kind of just accept that?
Interviewee:
Um, I would but I would probably go back out and buy some of the stuff I lost.
Interviewer: Right, right.
Interviewee:
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Interviewer: Okay, so, now we're going to talk a little bit about, you know, hoarding disorder in general.
So, in your opinion, what do you think are important differences between what you might consider like normal collecting and like normal, like saving and hoarding disorder?
Interviewee:
Okay, um… Well, it’s having things that you don't need, and you have to pay for.
And uh, just, not being able to get rid of them or want to ever.
Because I, I really try to curb myself a lot— I really, really have.
Like, you know, um, uh, buying something that I don't need, because I also like clothes.
But I’ve, I’ve got it pretty under control.
I’m doing pretty good on that.
Interviewer: Okay.
So, you know, when you think of hoarding disorder, whatever image you picture in your mind, would you say it's, you know, similar or maybe different from your own behavior?