058
00:01 Interviewer:
 
Okay. Um, so As you know, the study is investigating individual’s attitudes and beliefs related to having hoarding disorder. So, the first question would be what term do you prefer, when we were talking about your difficulties with clutter and difficulties discarding?
Participant:
Uh, clutter is alright.  
07:26 Interviewer:
Okay, thank you so much. Um, so now we're going to move on to the second part of our interview, that's a little bit more conversational. So, I'll just ask you a question. And then you can answer any way you see fit. So, this first section is about behavior and treatment seeking, so can you please describe your hoarding disorder.
Participant:
It's I am, I am a collector, but I'm not unsanitary. My plumbing works electricity works in a refrigerator is pristine. But if I'm looking around my house now there are stacks of papers. The kitchen table is not usable, the stove is barely usable. The living room. You can barely maneuver through it. Because all the while clean things, I still can't get rid of them or not, they’re just sitting there clean, till they get dirty again. The bed has clothes all over it because I have too many clothes. I mean, as I'm looking around. 
08:39 Interviewer:
Okay. And how long has this been going on?
Participant:
Probably like 40 years.
08:50 Interviewer:
 40 years? okay. 
Participant:
Yeah. Like it's hereditary but one of my brothers does it even worse. 
08:57 Interviewer:
And did your parents ever exhibit similar behaviors?
Participant:
My father. 
09:04 Interviewer:
Your father did okay. 
Participant:
It was awful
09:08 Interviewer:
Um, and how severe would you say that this behavior is now?  Like is it better? Is it worse than before?
Participant 058 09:17 
It might be a tad better actually, 
09:20 Interviewer:
Okay. And why do you think it's better?
Participant 058 09:27-
Because I wanted the… I keep saying to myself, like there's a Salvation Army up the street and there's a Big Sisters.  They need this these clothes more than you do they need these glass way more than… You know what I mean?
09:42 Interviewer:
Right. So, you had like a little bit more self-discipline, 
Participant:
right, like if I'm not going to use this and it's in beautiful shape all these Macy’s [unclear] didn't fit, that were beautiful. Why should I keep them when people can wear them… You know what I mean? No, let me try to do that. 
10:00 Interviewer:
Okay, so you've just had like more understanding recently. 
Participant:
Yeah. 
10:06 Interviewer:
Okay. Um, and so you do believe that your behavior is a problem, then. Correct? 
Participant:
Yeah. 
10:13 Interviewer:
Mm hmm. And can you elaborate on why you think it's a problem, please?
Participant:
Well, I mean, I would now which we’re not allowed. Are you in [location]? I don’t know if you are
10:25 Interviewer:
Yeah I’m in [location].