059
00:05 Interviewer:
Okay. So, as you know, this study is investigating individual’s attitudes and beliefs related to having hoarding disorder. So, the first question would be what term you prefer, when we were talking about your difficulties with clutter and difficulties discarding?
Participant:
Um, what term out of any terms. 
00:25 Interviewer:
Yeah. Like some people prefer like problems with clutter, or they're fine with hoarding disorder or they…
Participant:
Oh, I see. Okay. Yeah. You can say hoarding disorder.
Interviewer 09: 22- Okay, thank you. Um, so now we're going to be moving on to the second part of the interview, that's much more conversational. So, I'll just be asking you questions and then you just respond with how you think. Um, so the first section is just about your behavior and treatment seeking. So, could you please describe your hoarding disorder to me?
Participant:
My hoarding disorder is not as severe as my family's, my mother and my grandmother’s was, but I do find that I am I don't consider myself a collector, but I consider myself more of a sorter. So, if I find something like at the goodwill, or at a garage sale or at side of the road that belongs in the family, then I feel compelled to Pick it up and take it with me. I see something useful that's in the trash, then I am compelled to take it, take it out. If I find something that, if I see a good deal on something that I don't actually even need might need, then I would buy it. Don't have any problem with the amount of space that I have. Mostly because my husband is very strong about wanting, needing to have order. But if I were on my own, I probably would have A bit more of a chaotic collection. And also, because my husband doesn't like shopping really. He doesn’t like to go shopping, he doesn’t enjoy that. I don't go shopping or out to shops or goodwill or garage sales as much as I would if I wasn't with this partner and so I feel like my hoarding is under control. But by my by circumstance. 
11:59 Interviewer:
Okay. So, you mentioned that you have other families that also have hoarding does. Do you think that that may have contributed to the development of your own hoarding disorder?
Participant:
Yes, definitely. Definitely. And through and emotionally, through an emotional way because my mother and grandmother came Out of that situation of poverty when they were growing up. And so, their attachment to it was very much out of fear of not having enough and so although I haven't ever had any experience of poverty or lack, my mom giving personalities to everything, and feeling sorry for everything, and saying about hurting his feelings has made it difficult for me to discard things. 
13:08 Interviewer:
Ok so you would say that…
Participant:
Because it was learned emotionality