15:29 Interviewer:
Other than the living room, are there any other rooms that are cluttered?
Participant:
Ok. I had extended; I’m looking right at [unclear]. I’m looking right across from me at my dining room. It’s not a dining room because I haven’t sat in there and all my personal stuff is on those shelves. My son just even my bookshelves on wheels so I can stack them in front of each other and if I need something I can just move them aside on the wheels. I just slide them. So yeah it extends into the dining room. Other than that, there’s no other room. 
16:10 Interviewer:
Ok.  And how important; like which objects are most important to you?
Participant:
which what?
16:22 Interviewer:
which objects are most important to you?
Participant:
The most important would be things people give me. And that; I wish I knew the word I’m trying to say what that is. But that’s the things that people give me. Its sentimental.
16:41 Interviewer:
Sentimental. Ok.
Participant:
Yeah that’s my number one thing. My daughter says, “Mom take a picture of it.” Uh, uh. I have balloons from twenty years ago. You know right away I felt [unclear]. Sentimental stuff. And then I have stuff that, my next thing would be of course my work stuff, because I gotta have it around me. Then the other stuff is the ones where the pain in the butt is I can’t throw nothing away. I don’t care if its string. It’ll work for something. I don’t care if it’s a broken knob on a drawer. Hay, I might craft with that one day because I do like to craft. So that’s the three things. 
17:25 Interviewer:
Ok. So you’d say that your most valuable items would be the sentimental items that people have given you, the things that you need for work, and your craft; things that you could potentially use for crafts. 
Participant:
Well not crafts, its anything that right away I’ll say, “oh I can use that.”  Anything that I feel can be used before I die.
17:48 Interviewer:
ok. Gotcha. Are there any parts of your home that you don’t use, like rooms that weren’t, aren’t being used the way they were intended? Like are there things in the bathtub or on the stove or anything?
Participant:
Nope. Nope. That’s what I’m saying, its right here.
18:09 Interviewer:
Ok. 
Participant:
You know that’s what I’m saying. I know I’m not a bonafide, certified hoarder but I can sure, you know, stand among the people. 
18:20 Interviewer:
Gotcha. Um ok. So now we are going to go to the section that talks about value. So you mentioned that sentimental items are really valuable to you. And why do you think that is?