13:54 Interviewer:
So he keeps stuff in there too, it’s not just you. 
Participant:
He does. Yeah, and I have to say, he… you know we bought one of these electric fireplaces sort of units, and oh this is nice, and he happens to work at a home improvement store, so he bought another one that we’re not using now, and he stuffed it in my daughter’s bedroom. And then, you know, we were talking about needing a fan so we bought an indoor air conditioning unit, not just a fan, which got stuffed in my daughter’s bedroom, unopened. And we also have, he picked up where he works, an actual window air conditioning unit which is sitting here in the front room. So, some of this clutter is his! But most of it’s mine because I just turn my crap on top of it. So, yeah, there’s some times, like the front room here is the most cluttered, and it’s mostly my stuff, and it’s like clothes sitting on top of boxes, you know, one of which is…. 
15:14 Interviewer:
Hello? Hello? 1
5:24 Interviewer:
Hello? 
15:30 *phone call hangs up* 
Participant:
I’m sorry! I didn’t know what happened! 
15:47 Interviewer:
I think the call dropped or something! I think it dropped when you were saying about clothes being piled up on top of boxes and such. 
Participant:
Yes, that’s right, that was most of it, yes, and the boxes of both air conditioners are here, and opened and unopened boxes of stuff. And camping equipment and a wheelchair and other stuff. 
16:15 Interviewer:
Okay, so.. Oh is that your dog?
Participant:
Sorry. 
16:22 Interviewer:
Oh that’s okay, I have little dogs barking all the time too. So, what would you like your home to look like? 
Participant:
Well, I would like it to be at least uncluttered so that people can sit on the couches or use the bed that we have here in the front room. 
16:45 Interviewer:
Right, so just a little less cluttered so that you could entertain more? 
Participant:
Yeah, because it’s embarrassing for both my husband and me. We never have people here because it’s just cluttered and no place to sit and well I’m not great at housekeeping either. 
17:05 Interviewer:
How important are your things for you to feel at home in your space? 
Participant:
You know, I feel good that I have the things that I do, and you know, I’m trying not to get more things. You know, it’s nice that I have them, I don’t… you know, the only things that worry me may be perhaps like a fire or something like that. 
17:35 Interviewer:
So safety is definitely an issue. 
Participant:
Yeah, yeah. 17:39 Interviewer:
Are there things that you keep that have sentimental value or?